

BOURDAIN: Where does falafel come from? Who makes the best hummus? Is it a fence or a wall?

By the end of this hour, I'll be seen by many as a terrorist sympathizer, a Zionist tool, a self-hating Jew, an apologist for American imperialism, an Orientalist, socialist, a fascist, CIA agent, and worse.

So here goes nothing.



I was raised without religion. One side of the family long ago, Catholic. I think. The other side, Jewish. I've never been in a synagogue. I don't believe in a higher power. But that doesn't make me any less Jewish, I don't think.

These guys sandbagging me at the wailing wall, they don't seem to think so either.

Only half.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Jewish?

BOURDAIN: Yes. So that makes me .



UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You writer?

BOURDAIN: I'm a writer, yes.



UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mazel tov.

BOURDAIN: Mazel tov. Thank you, gentlemen.

I've never felt so much like I'm masquerading as something I'm not. I am instinctively hostile to any kind of devotion. Certainty is my enemy. You know, I'm all about doubt, questioning one's self and the nature of reality. Constantly.

When they grabbed hold of me and in a totally nonjudgmental way essentially, you know, God's happy to have you, you know, here you go. Oh, man. You know. My treachery is complete. Just because I was raised outside the faith with no particular

attachment or loyalty to Israel doesn't mean that plenty of people on this earth don't hate me in principle. I know that. But the state of Israel, I never really knew what to think.

First look around, it's like everybody says -- it's pretty. It's awesome. It's urban. Sophisticated. Hip. Like Southern California. Only nicer. Then you see the young draftees in the streets and you start to get the idea.

This is Jerusalem.

YOTAM OTTOLENGHI, CHEF/AUTHOR: I'm taking you through Damascus Gate, which is one of the gates to the old city. And these walls are pretty ancient. People say that the gates go back to King David. And then as history progressed, they built up the wall. So the top bed is the newest.

BOURDAIN: And by newest you mean --

OTTOLENGHI: I mean, up to about the Ottoman time which -- the Turks left here about 150 years ago. And the Brits came and they conquered us. I wasn't here.

BOURDAIN: Born here, now cooking in London, Yotam Ottolenghi is the widely known respected chef and co-author of the book "Jerusalem."

OTTOLENGHI: Basically, this city was divided into two until 1967 when there was the famous Six-Day War.

BOURDAIN: Yes.

OTTOLENGHI: And the hall of the -- we're traveling in now, walking in, is east Jerusalem. It's the Palestinian part. And that was up until '67 was belonged to Jordan. So now it's under Israeli control. Very controversial because for the Jews, for the Israelis, the city has been unified. But obviously for the Palestinian, they are under occupation, as far as they are concerned.

We just have to go for a falafel because it's so much part of the culture here. And again, contentious because, you know, Jews or Israelis make falafel their own and everybody in the world thinks falafel is -- you know, an Israeli food. The actual fact it's  food even more so, because, you know, it's been done for generations here.

And here, you get falafel that's just been fried. You don't get it any other way. When I come to a place like that, and I see there's a few left from the previous customer, I don't take that. I want them to fry them for me. That makes all the difference in the world.

BOURDAIN: It's a whole different animal, isn't it? So is there a historically provable answer to who invented it?

OTTOLENGHI: Who made it first. The one thing that's very clear that -- in this part of the world, Palestine, Lebanon, Syria, it's been cooked for many, many, many generations. On the other hand, you get like Jews from Yemen coming here --



BOURDAIN: Right. So they can say hey, my great uncle was in Syria at the time. Hey, I remember distinctly --

OTTOLENGHI: So there is actually no answer to it. But the question of food appropriation.

BOURDAIN: Right.

OTTOLENGHI: Or who owns the food . If you can go on arguing about it forever.

The old city is divided into four quarters. There is Muslim quarter. There is a Jewish quarter. There is a Christian quarter. And there's an Armenian quarter. Each one functions independently, but people that live in the certain area are all from that religion.

BOURDAIN: Right.

OTTOLENGHI: So here you see these Israeli flags over this house. So basically Jews have bought this house, although it's in the Muslim quarter. And that's very controversial because it breaks the separation that people would normally expect in this city.

Now we're walking in the steps of Jesus Christ, right?

BOURDAIN: As I so often do.



OTTOLENGHI: So this is Via Dolorosa, which is the last trip Jesus did before he was crucified. So people feel very emotional. They come here and they feel like oh, my god, I am walking in the steps of Muhammad, David, or Jesus.

BOURDAIN: It's like Jesus was here. I feel like I should be more something.

OTTOLENGHI: A little bit more pious?

BOURDAIN: A little bit. Well, it's too late for me.

Great. You get your own crown of thorns?

OTTOLENGHI: Yes.

BOURDAIN: In answer to the question, what would Jesus wear?

OTTOLENGHI: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Oh no, no, no. That's just wrong.





BOURDAIN: Israel is bordered by Egypt, Jordan, Syria, and Lebanon. In 1967, after the Six-Day War, Israel took control of the Gaza Strip, the Sinai Peninsula, the West Bank, the Golan Heights, and then next east Jerusalem.

In 2003, Israel began construction on a wall along the green line representing the Israeli-Palestinian border. The wall now stretches 450 miles. When completed, it will span 700 miles. Eighty-five percent of it in Palestinian territory. On one hand, there's no doubt that the number of suicide bombings fell drastically.

On the other, there's this. You cross from Jerusalem into the West Bank. Also called Judea, Samaria, also called Palestine.

Since 1967, half a million settlers have moved here, all in contravention of international law. Many in contravention of Israeli law, though in effect, it seems to make little difference. They're here and in ever-larger numbers.

This is Nolan , one of our drivers from Tel Aviv, who I asked about the graffiti on this house near the settlements.

So what is price tagging?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Something happens in a settlement or some attack with Jews, kids from the settlement would come and have a price tag for every activity. So they come to a Palestinian village like this, they will destroy cars, they will write on walls like this. It says, "Against Arabs, the state of Israel is alive, and death to the Arabs."

BOURDAIN: Intimidating. I mean, you put two targets on my house, I'm moving.

This is Eli, a settlement with a population of over 3,000, relatively isolated from the rest of Israel. Amiad Cohen is the chief executive of the Eli settlement and its former head of security.

AMIAD COHEN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, ELI SETTLEMENT: Here you see from up above most of our town. You see the Palestinian villages all around.

BOURDAIN: It's an unusual situation. A lot of your neighbors would very much like you to not be here.

COHEN: I know most of them. And most of them, they are happy that we're here. Because we -- actually we gave them prosperity for the past 45 years. And wherever the PLO came, they lost it.

BOURDAIN: I'm guessing a lot of people would disagree with that statement.

COHEN: High tech security, radars and cameras.

BOURDAIN: So from the high ground, you can see anybody walking at night. You could see from pretty far out.

COHEN: Definitely.

BOURDAIN: Could you identify them after the fact?

COHEN: Depends. What we have are protocols that we work with. And we had our successes.

BOURDAIN: We drive to Ma'ale Levona, another settlement a few miles away. Hot, sun-bleached, suburban feeling. Behind its ring of electronic surveillance, censors and security, everything they feel they need. A school, public transportation, and a petting zoo.

Amichai Luria has lived here for 23 years. He's a wine maker and amateur cook.

Wow. You're not kidding around.

AMICHAI LURIA, WINE MAKER AND COOK: The salmon is marinated with pomegranate juice that -- on the season, I squeeze pomegranates. And I freeze the juice so I'll have it all year round.

BOURDAIN: Where were you before here?

LURIA: I was born in Pennsylvania.

BOURDAIN: So your parents brought you over at age 4?

LURIA: Yes.

BOURDAIN:  kids living in the relative comfort and familiarity of Pennsylvania. Heading off to what must have, at least in part of their mind, would seem an uncertain.

LURIA: Yes. It was very difficult for them. Almost all Jews say next year in Jerusalem. It's part of prayers that we say all the time.

BOURDAIN: If I'm understanding it correctly, you're -- the bible, it's all right there. It all happened here. That's sort of a nonnegotiable position.

LURIA: You see prophesies coming true. Things coming to life again. You know, mountains that nobody wanted to live on, nobody dared to -- for thousands of years, nobody wanted this place. You know. And then finally, we come here and everything is flourishing again. It makes you feel good, you know?

BOURDAIN: You've been here since '90. You look over the edge there, there's an Arab village right --

LURIA: Yes. There is one that you can see from here.

BOURDAIN: At any point during that time, you ever go to anybody's house, sit down and eat?

LURIA: Not there, but in other villages.

BOURDAIN: Ever sat down at a Muslim table?

LURIA: Muslim table --

BOURDAIN: You host and everybody else --

LURIA: Coffee.

BOURDAIN: But not there.

LURIA: No, because I don't -- as a religious Jew, I eat only kosher. So they respect that. So they don't offer me.

BOURDAIN: So I've got to ask you about something that troubled me. Coming up, the first house before you come up the drive to this village, the graffiti on the front --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

BOURDAIN: The targets spray painted on.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Whodunit?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Villains. Bad people.

BOURDAIN: Kids?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't know. Apparently kids. When we educate kids, kids are not able to understand complicated things. They see the world in black and white. When you get older, you're able to see the gray. And when someone hits you --

BOURDAIN: I understand why kids would do it. Given what you told me earlier, identifying the perpetrators within the realm of possibility?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They're young people.

BOURDAIN: Why not paint it over?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Good question. I don't know. Maybe we should. You're right.

BOURDAIN: Elsewhere in the West Bank, just outside of Ramallah, meet Betty Saadeh and Mona Ennab. Two members of a group of women who call themselves the Speed Sisters. The first all-female Palestinian racing team.

BETTY SAADEH, SPEED SISTERS RACING TEAM: Hi.

BOURDAIN: Hi. I'm Tony. Good to meet you.

SAADEH: When I'm riding a car, I'm the happiest girl ever. Racing, it's in my blood. Here in Palestine, it's very small. There's no roads. So when I drive, I speed. I feel free.

BOURDAIN: Do you find that people underestimated you at first?

SAADEH: At the beginning, they could maybe make fun of us. But when we got good scores, we win respect.

BOURDAIN: Now they know.

SAADEH: Yes. Well, a car doesn't know if you're a woman or a man.

BOURDAIN: Yes.

SAADEH: A lot of girls want to join us as Speed Sisters. But some of their families, they are very reserved. Their don't like their daughters to be between men racing. You know. Palestine is a very reserved society.

BOURDAIN: So are things getting better? Staying the same, or worse?

SAADEH: You never know what's going to happen in Palestine. One day it's good and the other day it's just -- you never know. It's a crazy country.

BOURDAIN: The local police would prefer them off the streets for obvious reasons. But the track here, such as it is, has its drawbacks. It's basically a parking lot across from the Ofer Detention Center.

What do they think about this next door? Do they ever give you problems?

SAADEH: This is an Israeli jail. It's called Ofer. One time we were here with Speed Sisters and there was problems because of the prisoners. So I just stopped my car over there and I was walking. I wanted to see what's going on. And the Israeli soldiers, they came running at me and they start shooting at me. And I got -- I got shot in the back. It was a tear gas.

BOURDAIN: The canister hit you.

SAADEH: Yes. So my Speed Sisters, they took me to the hospital. I fainted.

BOURDAIN: Have you thought of challenging the Israelis to put up a team?

SAADEH: I can't race because my car is Palestinian.

BOURDAIN: What if they come over here?

SAADEH: They're not allowed to enter the West Bank and we're not allowed to go to Jerusalem, so how can we race together?

BOURDAIN: OK. Silly question.



BOURDAIN: It's right there for all to see. And it feels like something out of a science fiction film. This is the wall. From the other side, from inside this place, for instance, the Aida Refugee Camp in the district of Bethlehem, it doesn't feel like anything other than what it is. A prison.

Abed Abusrour is the founder of the Al Rowwad Children's Theatre Center.

ABED ABUSROUR, FOUNDER, AL ROWWAD CHILDREN'S THEATRE CENTER: So we are at the north entrance of Bethlehem, and heading to Aida Refugee Camp.

BOURDAIN: So this has been here since 1950.

ABUSROUR: Yes. It started with tents. People were under the tents for about seven years. And later on the U.N. saw that it was not temporary as it was supposed to be so they started building what they call shelters.

BOURDAIN: First impressions of the camp, there's a remarkable number of kids.

ABUSROUR: Now it's about 6,000 people. And the two-thirds are under 18 years old. So it's a very young population. Unfortunately, with the continuing degradation of political and economic situation, we are in the situation where we have no playgrounds or  spaces anymore.

BOURDAIN: Children play in the streets beneath walls covered in images of martyrs, plane hijackers, political prisoners.

Six thousand people, of that number, 66 percent are under the age of 18.

ABUSROUR: Yes.

BOURDAIN: I don't care where that is in the world, that's pretty much a recipe for unruly behavior, I think would be the best.

ABUSROUR: Well, yes. Especially when you don't have any possibilities to evacuate the anger and the stress in a creative way. So after I finished my studies, I came back here and I started using theatre as one of the most amazing, powerful, civilized and nonviolent means to express yourself. To tell your story. To be truthful.

And this is for me the remedy to build peace within. And hopefully help them to think that they can grow up and change the world and create miracles. Without the need to carry a gun and  and explode themselves or burn themselves. But to stay alive.

BOURDAIN: Abed takes me to the camp's martyrs quarter to be fed by . She runs a women's collective offering Palestinian cooking classes, helping her provide for six children, one of whom is disabled.

In America, kids grow up with pop stars, sports players.

ABUSROUR: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Never a politician. I mean, it's unthinkable for a child to look up to a politician or to look up to a military figure. Sports or entertainment.

ABUSROUR: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Here, kids 4 or 5 years old every day, they're looking at somebody who, you know, brought down a plane.

ABUSROUR: Yes.

BOURDAIN: I'm not questioning why that is.

ABUSROUR: I know. No.

BOURDAIN: Do you think it's helpful?

ABUSROUR: Well, I guess we have a history. We are people who are under occupation. People honor their heroes. And their heroes are those who resist the occupation. Whether they resisted it with armed struggle or non-violence.

And to tell you the truth, sometimes I have been invited with some political parties, when they put images of people who are killed in their own houses. Ahmed's sister, in the 29th of October, 2001, she was killed in her kitchen by a sniper from the Intercontinental Hotel. But when these political parties take this woman and want to make a montage of photos with her carrying a gun to say this is the hero proliferated the Palestine, sorry, this is not the truth.

This woman was killed in her house. We will go today and ask the Palestinians who is the great hero? You ask these kids, who will they recognize? They will recognize a young man from Gaza who is on "Arab Idol" named Mohamed Assa, a singer, who sings. He becomes more famous than Abu Mazen and Arafat and everybody else.

This is another image of Palestine.

BOURDAIN: You can almost believe for a minute or two that some kind of peace, some kind of reconciliation, meeting of the minds, sanity is possible after you visit Majda. It's a restaurant in what looks like an idyllic village in the Judean Hills, about 20 minutes from Jerusalem. It feels like an alternate universe for a number of reasons.

Michal Baranes is Jewish. Yaakov Barhum is Muslim, from a nearby village. They're partners, co-owners of Majda, and also married. They're unsurprisingly friends of Yotam. Together they grow and raise much of what's used in their kitchen. Their food reflects both their different backgrounds and their commonalities.

OTTOLENGHI: We're going to spoil you now.

BOURDAIN: Yes, here we go. So you grew up in this town.

YAAKOV BARHUM, OWNER, MAJDA RESTAURANT: Yes, in this village.

BOURDAIN: Where did you grow up?

MICHAL BARANES, OWNER, MAJDA RESTAURANT: Near the beach.

BOURDAIN: Near the beach.

BARANES: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Not the neighborhood.



BARHUM: But we met in the neighborhood. In Kibutzka . And then we worked together in hotel.

BOURDAIN: How did that go down the families?

BARHUM: Wonderful now. Now wonderful.

BOURDAIN: Now good. In the beginning, not so much.

BARHUM: Started with a, you know, with all those questions. Understand that we love each other and they can do nothing, so we continue and they support us.

OTTOLENGHI: This is your special fried eggs. Sunny side up.

BOURDAIN: Farm eggs with peppers from your garden. Tomato. That looks awesome beyond words. It is incredibly beautiful here. I don't know why I didn't expect that.

BARANES: You know, a lot of people come and say it's like Provence, it's like Italy. And I said, no, .

OTTOLENGHI: You like it?

BOURDAIN: I do. Roasted tomatoes, okra.

OTTOLENGHI: Onion and mint. And that's all they do. What they do a lot here is char the hell out of it. So it's like this, really smoky just from being in the pan on very high heat.

BOURDAIN: So generally speaking, who lives in this area? Mostly Arab -- ethnically Arab in this part of town?



OTTOLENGHI: Michael is the only Jewish in the village.

BOURDAIN: And this --

OTTOLENGHI: Zucchini that's been grilled. And then we use the fried yogurt, so that's the sauce. So it's like that intense kind of go-to flavor. Very typical for Palestinian cooking. Right?

BARANES: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Yes. It's good.

I just had this incredibly delicious meal completely oblivious to the fact that it's entirely vegetarian. If any of the vegetarian restaurants in New York served food that tasted anywhere near this, I would be -- I would actually go there. I'd consider it.



And this?

BARANES: Fried zucchini with mint.

OTTOLENGHI: And the apricots. The little sweet apricots we had.

BOURDAIN: It's really intensely delicious.

Are you hopeful?

BARANES: Of course. I have my children. I need to say that.

BARHUM: I respect her religion. She respects my religion. And together we can build something for our kids. Our future. That's what we think and that's what we give the message for our customers.

OTTOLENGHI: Part of the attraction of this restaurant, the fact that it actually manages to do what not so many chefs try to do here, and that is sort of mix your Jewish ethnicity or background with Arab foods.



BOURDAIN: Getting in and out of Gaza from Israel is truly one of the most surreal travel experiences you could have on earth. Over 1.5 million people live in Gaza. Most of them considered refugees. Meaning they're not from the place they're compelled to live now. In most cases, they're either prohibited from or unable to leave.

Israel decides who comes and goes. What gets in and what stays out. Apart from journalists, aid workers, emergency responders, very few people are allowed to cross into Gaza. In 2005, the Israeli defense forces left the Gaza Strip and all Israeli settlers were removed.

Now inside Gaza, Hamas is in charge. Considered a terrorist organization by both the United States and Israel, they got elected in 2006.

This is Laila Haddad, a native Gazan, journalist and author of "The Gaza Kitchen."

LAILA HADDAD, "THE GAZA KITCHEN" AUTHOR: The catches are not as big as they used to be, and that's primarily because the fishermen can't go beyond three to six nautical miles.

BOURDAIN: Could you envision what happens? HADDAD: They'll shoot at the fishermen, they'll spray cold water at

them, they'll destroy their boats, they'll cut their fishing nets, they'll detain them. So it's obviously really risky business. Nine nautical miles, that's where that deep sea channel is where you're going to get the really good catches.

Gaza is the last Palestinian area with access to the coast. And that's really important to remember. You know you have the West Bank just an hour away, but many of the Palestinians, they have never seen the sea, have never been to the sea.

BOURDAIN: Right.

The  family owns a small farm in the  area of the eastern Gaza Strip.  Sultan and her husband are unusual in that they cook together. This is not typical in this part of the world or in this culture. They use their own fresh-killed chickens to make the Gazan classic Maqluba. The traditional Palestinian dish comprised of layers of fried eggplant, tomato, potatoes, caramelized onions, and chicken sauteed then simmered in a broth with nutmeg, cinnamon, cardimum, and rice.

It's a big family. Children, grandchildren, all living under the same roof, and it can get chaotic.

So let's talk about food and eat food because it's just .

HADDAD: Yes, yes, sure.

BOURDAIN: Tell me, what do we have here?

HADDAD: OK. So this is called Maaluba or Maqluba. Traditionally with lamb, in this case chicken. They're very concerned that we're being very rude and we're not --

BOURDAIN: Yes. Please.

HADDAD: We're not allowing the others to eat. He's saying how can you be eating and you're letting everybody stand.



BOURDAIN: Wow.

HADDAD: For me, being from Gaza, being a child of diaspara, I always thought food was a really interesting way to be able to tell the Palestinian story. Being able to discover this lost history, this Palestinian past. Plus, the food is really dang good.



BOURDAIN: Right. That it is.

HADDAD: And it was I think also important to be able to provide Palestinians an image of themselves that they recognize, a very humane image, because all they're seeing in the media, whether here or there, whether on Arabic channels or abroad, you know, is this kind of very caricatured images of gunned men and this kind of grim cinderblock landscape.

You're not entering into the private homes. What does a kitchen look like, or what does, you know, a family you see here.

Yes. Do you like it, she's asking?

BOURDAIN: Absolutely delicious. Really, really good.

HADDAD: Yes? She wants you to open a restaurant for her.



BOURDAIN: Keep cooking like this. It's really delicious.

HADDAD: Gaza has three distinctive culinary heritages. Those who hail from villages that were either depopulated or destroyed in 1948. And they constitute about 75 percent to the population of Gaza. And they kind of bring with them their own distinct cuisine. That's very different from the cuisine of the city, Gaza City, which tends to use much more heat, much more chili peppers, from the cuisine of the coast, which is rich with seafood, of course, and a very sophisticated, very urbane cuisine.

BOURDAIN: Whatever you think is still there. Will -- in your lifetime, I guess the first question would be, in your lifetime, will you be able to visit Yahba?

HADDAD: She says, you know, she hopes she can. She also hopes she can go to Jerusalem as well. So she's optimistic. Yes.





BOURDAIN: What --

HADDAD: She's saying -- first she said you're not allowing us to. Then self-corrected and said the Israelis aren't allowing us.

BOURDAIN: Go, go.



HADDAD: This is a normal tone of voice. He's not upset, by the way. This is how we talk. We yell.



BOURDAIN: What's he saying?

HADDAD: He's saying, you know, give me a permit. If they allow, of course I'll go.

 BOURDAIN: Laila's got something to show me. A watermelon salad she discovered on her recent trip here that's really piqued her interest. So off we go. I figured, this will take a minute.

We arrived at what looks like a pretty serious gathering. This is a duwan, and we're soon joined by her Um Sultan's husband Abu.

HADDAD: It's an area where kind of the elders gather to, you know, resolve community problems, to, you know, kind of advise.

BOURDAIN: All these guys are originally from , now part of Israel, so they're bound together by traditions and a way of life very different from here, where they've been relocated and lived since 1948.

Does he think he'll be able to go to his ancestral homeland in his lifetime, his children's lifetime? What's his guess?

HADDAD: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We will return.

HADDAD: Whether now we're 100 years.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our Quran, our instrument, told us this.

HADDAD: It's pre-ordained, yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This enemy back me. Please kill him. And we understand that. We hope. Me, my son. My daughter.

HADDAD: So what they're making now is called , is basically a baby watermelon, under ripe watermelon. And this is kind of a specialty of southern Gaza generally but also Sinai. It's usually something that's made specifically by men, as I was told here. So they begin, you can see over they're fire roasting the baby watermelons. They cover them with aluminum foil.

In addition, they put them through a wire, kind of like, sort of rustic skewer. And then yes, they just throw them in there. And then the idea is that they take the pulp out, so that's what's going on. Yes, and then what they do while that's fire roasting is they knead an unleavened dough over there with whole-wheat, barley, plenty of really rich, extra virgin olive oil. And then they throw that into the pit as well, or they dig a pit in the sand over there. And that's fire based.

BOURDAIN: Right in the coals?

HADDAD: Yes. And then they mix that all together. So it's interesting. Because right now, we're about, what, 35 minutes away from Gaza City. Ask anyone in Gaza City if they've heard of this dish and --

BOURDAIN: No.



HADDAD: No. So you're an area as small as Gaza, you see this very wide variation. They're going to clean it up.

BOURDAIN: Many, if not most of these guys, are not too sympathetic to my country or my ethnicity, I'm guessing. But there's that hospitality thing. Anywhere you go in the Muslim world, it seems. No matter what, you feed your guests and do your best to make them feel at home.

HADDAD: We have to eat. Maybe we should -- you're supposed to eat this with your hands. Very good. He's saying if you eat this, you shouldn't have another meal for three days.



BOURDAIN: Where does this dish come from?

HADDAD: This is a dish that's native to southern Gaza, the Sinai, the -- sort of the Desert Bedouin areas.

BOURDAIN: All the food I've had so far in Gaza has been very different than in anything else I've had in the Arab world. Different flavor spectrum.

HADDAD: Yes. Totally. It's kind of this -- its own little gastronomical bubble.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why are you not using a spoon?

HADDAD: You know, I find that the food has more flavor, I get a better sensory experience. They have children, they like to eat with their hands. He's saying God gave us hands to eat with, not spoons.



BOURDAIN: One can be forgiven for thinking, when you see how similar they are, the two peoples, both of them cook with pride, eat with passion, love their kids, love the land in which they live or the land they dream of returning to, who live so close, who are locked in such an intimate, if deadly embrace, might somehow, some day, figure out how to live with each other.

But that would be very mushy thinking indeed. Those things in the end probably don't count for much at all.

Gatan Galkowitz runs a restaurant just seven miles from the Gaza Strip.

You and your family have paid the worst imaginable price.

GATAN GALKOWITZ, GAZA STRIP RESTAURANT OWNER: Yes. My daughter was killed by a mortar sent by Hamas.

BOURDAIN: In some Israeli towns and villages within close proximity of the Gaza Strip, bus stops double as bomb shelters, and air raid sirens warn of incoming missiles fired from less than a mile away. Rockets and mortar shells have been known to fall from the sky in these parts and no one understands the consequences more than this man.

You were not a fervent ideological Zionist.

GALKOWITZ: No.

BOURDAIN: You were not an orthodox Jew.

GALKOWITZ: No.

BOURDAIN: And yet here you are, at the spear point, right at the dip. Here's your restaurant.

GALKOWITZ: This is a shelter.

BOURDAIN: There is a shelter. Here you are.

GALKOWITZ: After the death of my daughter, I just start to talk, to whom? To people who want to listen. I know that my daughter was killed for no reason and I know that people on the other side have been killed for no reason. Childrens, old people. I have been a soldier in Gaza. I saw very poor people. I know there is interest in keeping this poor people. You can go far, far, but the bottom line is, let's stop with the suffering.

BOURDAIN: You know, I went to this settler community and I --

GALKOWITZ: Nice people.

BOURDAIN: And I said to you, you know, they were nice. And you said, you said -- what did you say? You said, they're all nice.

GALKOWITZ: They are all nice. I know, nice, very nice Palestinian people.

BOURDAIN: They're all nice, but if you scratch, if you push, they all want -- but they'll all say, throw them in the sea.

GALKOWITZ: Most of the people, they don't talk. They are very upset. They are fed up. And the same goes from the other side to us. You have to find the right people on both village, also on the down, also on the up, and maybe they talk. And I am sure that is possible.

BOURDAIN: The opportunities to do that here are very, very, very limited, it seemed.

GALKOWITZ: I agree.

BOURDAIN: And I mean, one doesn't even have to speak metaphorically, because there is an actual wall.

GALKOWITZ: There is a wall.

BOURDAIN: Or a fence, depending on who you're talking to. GALKOWITZ: Fence or wall. No, it's a big wall. It's ugly. It's

really ugly. You can see it, it's not far away from here.













Anthony Bourdain, Parts Unknown: Sicily

Aired December 22, 2015 - 21:00   ET




BOURDAIN: We go up this beautiful mountain.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Incredible town.

BOURDAIN: It goes back to the 12th century. People try to jump the hill to the beautiful church to take the walk that Michael Corleone took. Now and forever more it will be sort of the "Godfather" theme park where they're just playing the "Godfather" theme over and over.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think the most thoughtful Sicilians are disgusted by this.

BOURDAIN: Imagine not waking up every day.

As one bus after another filled with Japanese tourists go up there, oh, look, Michael Corleone got married there. Oh, it's so fantastic.



It's one of the most beautiful places in Europe, a place whose roots are very much the roots of the town where I live, but somehow I've never been able to get it right. To tell the story, any story of Sicily. It's the biggest island in the Mediterranean. Two main towns of Palermo and Catania on opposite sides.

I've done a show in Palermo before. It was an epic goat rodeo, a failure of humiliating scale. This time I was going to get it right.

There's the Sicily we know from films -- an evocative, deeply felt history that's not quite reality but cool anyway, right? There's the simple fact of its location, tucked away under the boot of Italy, part of but not really part of that country.

Its own language, culture, its own history of Norman, Arab, Spanish, Roman, Turkish, Egyptian interlopers, all leaving their mark and their influence.

I grew up in New Jersey which was pretty much Sicily on the Hudson. The Italian-Americans next door weren't from Milan, I could tell you that much. I guess what I'm telling you is I figured this will be easy. Villa Monaci delle Terre Nere, a certified Agriturismo, meaning it's a hotel, restaurant and working farm that in this case produces olive oil.

How many acres of property do you have?

GUIDO ALESSANDRO, OWNER, VILLA MONACI DELLE TERRE NERE: About 40 acres. It's one of the oldest organic farm mountains.

BOURDAIN: This is Guido, the proprietor.

Wow. So that's where potatoes come from.

How freaking hard can it be to make an awesome show in Sicily? Eat the nice food, drink the wine. In an idyllic villa in the countryside, outside Catania. How low-impact can it get?

So the plan was we go fishing. We get some fresh octopus, maybe some cuttlefish, explore the bounties of the surrounding waters, all while working on our tans. With a local chef, fishermen, man of the sea. He's experienced. He knows where to get it good.

TURE: You like the ocean?

BOURDAIN: I love it. How do you say it in Italian?

TURE: Ricci.

BOURDAIN: Ricci. Yes.

TURE: Ricci de mare.

BOURDAIN: It's one of my favorite things to eat.

This is Turin, my host.

What else is out there? Octopus?

TURE: Octopus, now it's cuttlefish and I like -- I want to try to find some small apalone, we call it .

BOURDAIN: Nice.

TURE: And there's the clams. Here the water is still cold. I think they will be really full.

BOURDAIN: I'm thinking, really? Are these prime fishing waters? I don't know about this. With all this boat traffic and all these people, so close to the action I can't see much of anything living down there.

TURE: OK. Let's anchor. We anchor here.

BOURDAIN: But I am famous for my optimism so I dutifully suited up for what was advertised as a three-hour cruise. So I get in the water, and I'm paddling around. And splash. Suddenly there's a dead sea creature sinking slowly so the seabed in front of me.

Are they kidding me? I'm thinking, can this be happening? Splash, there's another one. Another rigor mortis half-frozen freaking octopus but it goes on. One dead cuttlefish, deceased octopus, frozen sea urchin after another, splash, splash, splash. Each specimen drops among the rocks or along the sea floor, to be heroically discovered by Turin moments later and proudly shown off to camera, like I'm not actually watching as this confederate in the next boat over hurls them into the water one after another.

I'm no marine biologist, but I know dead octopus when I see one. Pretty sure they don't drop from the sky and then sink straight to the bottom.

TURE: How many do we have? Three?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

TURE: OK. I tried to get some patate now and also small  abalone.

BOURDAIN: Strangely everyone pretends to believe the hideous sham unfolding before our eyes, doing their best to ignore the blindingly obvious.

TURE: . Don't swim at it.

BOURDAIN: Then they gave up and just dumped the whole bag of dead fish into the sea. At this point I begin desperately looking for signs of life, hoping that one of them would stir, become revived. I'm frantically swimming around the bottom littered with dead things looking for one that's still twitching so can I hold it up to the camera and end this misery, but, no, my shame will be absolute.

For some reason I feel something snap, and I slide quickly into a spiral of near hysterical depression.

Is this what it's come to, I'm thinking, as another dead squid narrowly misses my head? Almost a decade later back in the same country, and I'm still desperately staging fishing scenes, seeding the oceans with supermarket seafood, complicit in a shameful, shameful incident of fakery?

But there I was, bobbing listlessly in the water. Dead sea life sinking to the bottom all around me. You've got to be pretty immune to the world to not see some kind of obvious metaphor.

I've never had a nervous breakdown before, but I tell you from the bottom of my heart something fell apart down there, and it took a long, long time after the end of this damn episode to recover.

TURE:  longer, we don't need to boil. We'll be ready without it. . I'm cleaning it. Only the fish eat this part. Who wants to eat this one?

BOURDAIN: Raw clams, abalone and a heart-warming beet sea surrounded by a gaggle of curious and hungry kids. It was at this point about the only positive way for Turin to redeem himself.

You'll notice, I'm not there. I'm sitting in a nearby cafe pounding one Negrone after in a smoldering miserable rage.

Our evening meal will be at Ture's place, , which is just up the hill in Turmina, but by the time dinner rolls around, I'm ripped to the -- did I mention it's my birthday? I've had three hours of bobbing around on a pitching boat, a couple

more hours getting looped, two more hours lying on the sidewalk outside the restaurant while the crew hangs light so I'm gone, baby, gone. I don't remember any of this. Any of it.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So how is your day today?

BOURDAIN: It's good. A nice boat trip. A little swim.

I would be told later that a gentleman named Tomaso that joined me for dinner. Also someone on the crew mentioned that his wife was present and that she didn't say much. Presumable because this was not her preferred way to spend her birthday.

TURE: Hi.

BOURDAIN: Hi.

TURE: Tony. This is my passion. I like to find that whole variety of olive and one of this is white.

BOURDAIN: So that's the original?

TURE: Yes, the original. You don't find it anyplace else.

BOURDAIN: Apparently there were these white olives harvested from some secret tree only Ture knows about. Maybe it's next to his secret fishing hole. There was great Sicilian wine apparently, and apparently I drank quite a lot of it.

There was bread and olive oil. Abalone served raw in the shell, baby sardine called vionata , also served raw with a splash of citrus and salt.

TURE: And this is , the baby sardine, totally raw without no match ingredients to taste better the fish. Salud.

BOURDAIN: Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you ask a Sicilian, right, say where you come from? The correct answer should be I'm Italian.

BOURDAIN: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No. We say I'm Sicilian.

BOURDAIN: Why? Is Sicily, Italy?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Should it be?



UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't know, but we used to have influence from Britains, Normans, Arab, Spanish, so basically we are a mix. We're a blender.

BOURDAIN: Oh, look, my octopus. I remember personally catching that one. It was a mighty struggle, too. No, actually I don't.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. The octopus.

BOURDAIN: Really? Beautiful little shrimp. Very tender, the octopus, very nice.

And another traditional specialty. I'm told they call this tuna tartar. And cuttlefish, recognize you, my friend. Now  like this, how traditional is this to Sicily?

TURE: I think from the part of the sea they almost eat a roll.

BOURDAIN: Always?

TURE: Yes.

BOURDAIN: But fisherman only, fishing communities only or in restaurants? Always since long as you've been alive. You go to a restaurant you see crudo like this?

TURE: No. I see crudo in the poor families.

BOURDAIN: So it's not like this Japanese influence, but the Japanese sort of gave everybody permission to eat traditional foods, their own traditional foods. What are the great mother Sicilian classic dishes?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The anchovy. Anchovy and parmegiana.

TURE: Pasta colisarde .

BOURDAIN: OK, that's --

TURE: I think this is -- for me --

BOURDAIN: That's with the sardine.

TURE: Yes. But it's an explosion of flower, because at this plate -- there is Arab. Born in the period when Sicily was very poor.

BOURDAIN: This I like. I even remember it. Pasta , actually a true Sicilian classic made with fennel, pine nuts, saffron and anchovy. Served alongside some sardines that have been curing in chestnuts and salt for days, then lightly fried in oil.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have to use our hand. We have to use our hand to eat the fish.

BOURDAIN: No problem.

I must have slump back to bed somehow, collapsed in a sodden drunken heap of self-loathing. I would ordinarily have turned on the porn challenge and maybe loaded up on prescription meds. But there's no TV at the Agriturismo. 

BOURDAIN: I love the films "Godfather 1" and "Godfather 2" but they had nothing to do with any organized crime from reality. They're opera. Magnificent opera but basically a morality tale about loyalty and destroying the things you claim to love and want to protect.

Actual organized crime members generally speaking a bunch of spectacularly  uneducated lazy ass sociopaths who have no problem stealing from their own harder working neighbors. Here in Sicily they are interested and less glamorous than gambling and prostitution. They are and have and traditionally have been a gigantic parasitical organization, one that has now grown to be of mere equal size as its host.

Mary Taylor Simeti is originally from New York, but she's been living here in Palermo for half a century now. She's a food writer and at one time a reformer for social justice which is a dicey thing to be here.

You've been here all this time? Well, why?

MARY TAYLOR SIMETI, FOOD WRITER: Well, I came for a year. So it's going to be a year between college and graduate school. I just finished college. I met a man, and therein lies the why. I married a Sicilian and have been here ever since.

BOURDAIN: Piccolo Napoli is a restaurant like a lot of others around here except for the quality of its food.

Tell me about where are, first of all.

SIMETI: OK. The father and mother of the present owner opened this in 1951 when there was a wonderful photograph there on the wall of the opening day. It started as really a tavern and has become a well- known and much appreciated restaurant now. Now it's very straightforward Sicilian cooking at its best.

BOURDAIN: We start with some typical things, the kind of things I deeply love, the kind of simple good things that make me happy. Panelli which is a fritter made from chickpeas, some caponata, a sweet and sour eggplant dish, kind of like ratatouille but more Arab in influence. A plate of olives husband white wine produced from a small batch vineyard run by Mary and her husband.

This is a panelli?

SIMETI: Panelli. Chickpea flour probably comes in with the Arabs, maybe even earlier, because chickpeas have been around for a long time.

And this is the famous caponata. About as Sicilian as it gets.

SIMETI: Yes. That's caponata canoli. Internationally known Sicilian dishes.

BOURDAIN: Yes.

This is what I've been waiting for. This is what I wanted Sicily to be, something to soothe my shattered soul. It doesn't take much, a bowl of good pasta. In this case the famous spaghetti al nero di sepia, spaghetti and cuttlefish, also some  pasta with swordfish, eggplant and tomatoes. Oh, beautiful. Perfect. Perfect pasta. Very happy with that.

SIMETI: Good. I know you've been looking forward to it so I'm glad it's good. It's an expensive city for some things because the consumer is paying --

BOURDAIN: More.

SIMETI: More so that the store can afford to pay its extortion money. The big change that has happened is that up until the mid-'80s, the late '80s, there were a great many Sicilians who thought if they were honest and didn't have anything to do with the mafia, they could live without being affected by the mafia. Apparently 80 percent of the businesses in Palermo and 70 percent in the rest of Italy that pay extortion.

BOURDAIN: That's a lot.

SIMETI: That's a lot. That's a lot.

BOURDAIN: But not everybody pays the bite. A small but growing coalition of businesses have joined a group called Addio Pizzo , a grassroots organization taking a stand against the mafia's traditional mere total control over the food chain, from farm to table.

I come out of the restaurant business in New York. You got taxed with every laundry order every time they took your trash away. It was built in to all your basic services.

SIMETI: Here it's much more going around. Christmas and Easter.

BOURDAIN: A guy comes by.

SIMETI: The guy comes by. I mean, it's plain and simple extortion.

BOURDAIN: Given that that's a pretty straightforward situation, some of these guys who banded together for Addio Pizzo, I mean, what happens, the guy shows up and says I'm not paying you. What happens next?

SIMETI: Well, apparently now the mafia has decided that it isn't worthwhile bothering with the people who belong to Addio Pizzo. There's so many others out there and why look for trouble. How true it is, I don't know.

BOURDAIN: Right.

SIMETI: To belong to Addio Pizzo, you have to sign a pledge that you will not pay and that if you are approached, you will go to the police. BOURDAIN: Right.

SIMETI: Then they send you to lawyers and to another organization which deals with the people who are actually having trouble. It's incredibly complicated. I mean, there are no easy answers.

BOURDAIN: Right.

SIMETI: What about big farm? What about some of the things that are -- that are happening on a much more legitimate level?

BOURDAIN: I mean, who is more destructive worldwide? I mean, yes, you can make a very good argument.

SIMETI: That's horrible. I'm upset because I sound as if I'm making apologies for the mafia. It's just I think what has happened, that having lived 50 years in Sicily, I'm much more skeptical than most Americans.

BOURDAIN: Right.

SIMETI: I don't know --

BOURDAIN: I know what you're saying. You're saying you're not so sure that a mafia-free Italy would be that much more functional?

SIMETI: Absolutely.

BOURDAIN: I'm not so sure.

SIMETI: I'm not so sure at all.



But I am constantly amused by the fact that 45 years ago, if I said to Americans, oh, I live in Sicily, how did a nice girl like you end up in a place like that?

BOURDAIN: Really.

SIMETI: Now it's oh, on a farm in Sicily, how romantic. Oh, I envy you. So perception of Sicily --

BOURDAIN: It has changed.

SIMETI: It has changed. Enormously.

BOURDAIN: In 2007 there were only 160 Addio Pizzo members, now over 800. Pretty cool considering we're talking about a group who have demonstrated no regret or hesitation in killing judges, politicians, police, prosecutors.

Back to Catania, and when you're talking late-night dining options, you're talking one thing. The enticing smell of smoke wafting through the streets, a smell that's enticingly equine. I smell rainbow dash.

Anthony and Marco, a couple of Sicilians and aficionados of .

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's one of the older side, famous, you know, families of mafia, you know, that grows in crime organization here.

BOURDAIN: Oh, right here?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And now these things -- yes, yes, yes. Nowadays seems to be like a bit more quiet because they are all getting arrested so they prefer to sell meat against drugs.

BOURDAIN: So right over there you can bet on a horse?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We can bet horses, yes. People like to bet horse and you eat the one that lose.



BOURDAIN: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The loser goes on the fire. That's not a nice thing, but, I mean, sometimes it happens for real.

BOURDAIN: Cycle of life. All right. So why horse? Where does this tradition come from?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Maybe also Egyptians, then we have Greeks, 750 years before Christ. Then we have Romans.

BOURDAIN: Because?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have to say that Sicilians are big bastards.



UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Of course, we're being conquered by everybody. Also our dialect. There are many words that are understood by our people. If I say, yes, Sicilian dialect word, maybe an Arab can understand me, an Italian no, because Italian language comes from Latin, something different.

We are Sicilians before Italians.

BOURDAIN: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Remember this.

BOURDAIN: I'll never forget.



Look at this side of the meat. It's yellow, it's not white. When it's yellow, it means that the horse has been breeded, eating fresh grass.

Perfecto. OK. Thanks.

BOURDAIN: Prepare and go.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. You like the faith?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you like the taste?

BOURDAIN: It's good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's a bit sweet. You don't need nothing. Horse meat. Loved by quite everybody here, you know. We can have also meat balls, Anthony, we can have a horse meat ball.

BOURDAIN: As you wish. Whatever.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK.

BOURDAIN: Whatever, I'll try anything.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Some mix of different things, you know. Bread, parmesan cheese, pecorino.

BOURDAIN: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Parsley, eggs, and, of course, horse.

BOURDAIN: Horse. It is very tasty.

Let's put it this way. When my daughter asks me for a pony, I'm bringing her here, pointing at that grill and saying here is your pony.



BOURDAIN: Parco delle Madonie is a national park and within that is this free range pig farm. They breed these special heritage pigs here, the black boar of Nedbrodi. A combination of wild Sicilian boar and domesticated swine thought to have been brought here from Spain long ago, this breed of pig is raising the profile of the pig here.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Smell of shit everywhere, huh? Look, look, they're here now, the noise. They will arrive. Fantastica.

BOURDAIN: But any good-tasting high-quality pig, the secret is largely what were they fed? How did they live? Were they happy?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm a hunter. I've never seen so many in once. It's like I feel --

BOURDAIN: You should be shooting something.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

BOURDAIN: A poorly fed pig who lived his life in squalor, stress and fear makes for bad pork. This is why we should treat animals well, not just because that's the nice thing to do, but because it makes them provably more delicious.

Chestnuts, acorns, roots and stuff foraged from the hills, supplemented by some nice fattening grain during the winter months when wild food is less easy and less plentiful.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They catch here the animal only with the traps.

BOURDAIN: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's a shame that they don't let you shoot.

BOURDAIN: I like pigs. Not to hang out with, to eat. I don't have a tattoo of a pig or anything, but I like them fine, and when given the opportunity to shoot one in the brain or see one shot in the brain so that I may suck on its entrails and other parts, I'm down. That's what is called cheering me up from some manic depression.

Bang, and this pig is like Pauly, you won't see him no more. Even with the brain dead, the heart still goes on beating, sort of like pick a Kardashian. In the case, however, the last few beats of the heart are absolutely necessary to pump all that red, red carve in a bucket for Sanguinacco. The salt helps keep it from coagulating prematurely.

There's a Kardashian joke there somewhere. Kim gets ready for the big day. It's date night at Khloe's house. Real housewife gets ready for summer. Grooming tips from Theresa Guidice. I got a million of them. Let's hope Kanye never has to see this.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We hang now.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Bye.



BOURDAIN: Then get to work.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Very fast.

BOURDAIN: All those good bits, the lungs, kidneys, they get cooked slowly in fat with garlic, chili pepper, a little wine.

Is the meat also the liver? So it's interior with a little bit of fat?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The interior with a little bit of the fat.

BOURDAIN: It's a pork confit.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE:

BOURDAIN: Oh, that's pretty.

Meanwhile the intestinal casings get filled with blood and gently poached until creamy bloody delicious. And a nice spread of homemade cured meats, local cheese and homemade wine. Let the party begin.

So what do we have here? Let's identify these products. Capicolo.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Capicolo.



BOURDAIN: That's the Spanish --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Prosciutto. Yes. Lardo.

BOURDAIN: Lardo. Pancetta. Oh, that looks good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The cheese is local, it's provolone. This is the ricotta and just cooked in the oven.

BOURDAIN: The bread.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The bread is from the ankle, and they have also salami and they have sausages.

BOURDAIN: And this cheese?



UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cannistrato.

BOURDAIN: And what do you call that dish?



UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just in the pan.

BOURDAIN: Right. Beautiful.

Oh, it's good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Best moment of the day.

BOURDAIN: Indeed. Oh, yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What did you think about?

BOURDAIN: It's good. For me the ricotta, it's really good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it's a confused country, this place. You discover Sicily, and I expect that that very few people know this is incredible, even the bread is the old lady that she made.

BOURDAIN: You think of Sicily, you think of family, you think of food. This is more like it.



UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We'll stop here.

BOURDAIN: Catania, the early morning market. It's been going on for longer than America has as a country. It's old, old Italia.

Do they know you here? Do you shop here often?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

BOURDAIN: This is not Tomaso's first trip to the market by a long shot. His mom is a regular. She comes here almost every day.

Thanks.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And this is the next stock market you can find here everything. Each butcher, more likely they have their own specialty. Fresh ingredients, you know. You know, they --

BOURDAIN: They do lamb?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, they do lamb, sausage, the hamburger, the . This is , at least six months old, at least. Over here. This is the place where she buy the spices for her home, and the veggies.

BOURDAIN: This is what the market is best known for, seafood.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This one is one of the biggest sellers that we have in the fish market. You can see also the variety.

BOURDAIN: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We consider the tuna like a pig. We don't throw away anything. See, this is typical. You can find it here.

BOURDAIN: Oh, those are the tiny, tiny little clams.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right. In Sicilians they're called . You can see the shrimp are still alive.

BOURDAIN: So I see sepia? Baby --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, baby sardines.

BOURDAIN: Swordfish.

I'm joining Tomaso for lunch today. Mom's cooking, so we've got to do some shopping.



BOURDAIN: They look beautiful.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

BOURDAIN: The color is beautiful.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So we'll go have some today, so shrimp. And --

BOURDAIN: And baby sardines. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gracias.

BOURDAIN: I'll tell you.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do you want to try? The blood sausage?

BOURDAIN: Saukernaut? Just blood, no onion, no spice, nothing? A little salt. A little pepper. You squeeze it?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, no, no.

BOURDAIN: No, open. Oh, man.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Interesting runner up.

BOURDAIN: Oh, that's good.

Usually I don't like it plain, I like it in a sauce and spicy. That's very tasty. Looks like hell. Tastes like heaven. If you like this, you're Sicilian.



UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Very, very.



BOURDAIN: I don't have any grandparents. My mom, I guess she cooks, but the last time she ever invited me for dinner was like 1972 so given that tragic, dysfunctional, too much information kind of history is it any mystery why I'm always on the lookout for grandma? Anybody's grandma will do.

Hell, I've been known to cruise rural state highways looking for hitch-hiking grannies to abduct so they'll cook for me. And given my fragile emotional state it makes perfect sense that I'd dragoon Tomaso's mom into making me a nice lunch. Is that heartwarming or like creepy and sad?

Hey. It smells good in here.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let's go open a wine. All right.

BOURDAIN: Cheers.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cheers.

BOURDAIN: Need any help chopping parsley? Oh, perfect.

For lunch we've got the shrimp and sardines from earlier at the market, but first this. Just grab one? It's like Arancini but with hole owed out potatoes. Filled with cheese, breaded and fried.

Delicious.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Basically when it finish the bread is ready and you fill it with all the cheese.

BOURDAIN: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And deep in and sealed the potatoes and then fried.

My mother cooks for everybody, even if it was midnight. My parents .

BOURDAIN: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So when we have to share all together and they have a dinner, my mother is cooking for everybody. Because the problem is when she cook, even if she know it's only for five people, she cooking for ten.

BOURDAIN: Just in case.

This is Sicily, after all. And this is the classic starter. Also a bread and tomato salad.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Would you like to try something?

BOURDAIN: That's old school.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Because of the bread. We use bread that a harder. We usually do bread that is two days old.

BOURDAIN: Right. It's really good. Really, really good. That's Sicily right there.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right. Yes.

BOURDAIN: Fresh shrimp sauteed in garlic, butter and herbs.

That every great and enlightened culture, when they are confronted with the shrimp or a prawn, fry away.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's the way you see if it's fresh or not.

BOURDAIN: Yes. So typical day, when you were 15 years old what did you eat for lunch?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Never missing a pasta for lunch.

BOURDAIN: Pasta and meat --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Pasta and fish.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And fish. Of course something local. Basically you have to go right behind the corner to find your products. So whatever we could produce in Sicily, that's what we choose to buy.

BOURDAIN: Watch this. Zip the bone right out. Out comes all the bone. Who needs a knife?

Sardines filleted neatly, sauteed in garlic and oil. A little red pepper.

That's a beautiful thing right there. I'll tell you, another two hours here I'll be speaking Italian. Well, speak Sicilian. Yes, you have to eat it hot. This is very nice. If you don't like this, there's really no hope for you.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If there's something that you don't like it.

BOURDAIN: Everything is --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Tell her. Tell her because --

BOURDAIN: So happy. This is a delicious meal. And to eat in this beautiful home with some really good home cooked food.



BOURDAIN: My last night in Sicily. And after this I'm going back to New York, crawling under my bed and adopting the fetal position for, like, six weeks. I may look normal -- OK, I don't exactly. But I'm not barking uncontrollably or running around shrieking with my pants wrapped around my head which is what my instincts are telling me I should be doing.

To me one of life's great joys is cheese. No, I'm eating cheese. Which makes me happy. Always. And drinking wine. Good wine. And a hell of a lot of it. And I'll just make it over the hump with any luck at all.

We have a mozzarella here, a .



BOURDAIN: Ture joins me for a final meal along with Antonio, Guido and Guido's girlfriend Ara.

This is an Agriturismo. This is not a concept that exists in America, but it is a concept that should exist. OK, now please explain what it is.

ALESSANDRO: Agriturismo is a hotel linked to the territory. You have to use local product, local recipe.

BOURDAIN: Penne, sun dried tomatoes, zucchini, all from the farm. Oh, man that looks good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Wow. Fantastic.

BOURDAIN: Whoa, some nice rabbit, olive oil, also from the farm. More wine. I might just make it.

This is called . It's bitter. If you talk about Italy, it is the most interesting aspect of Italian cuisine. I mean, that's just gastronomically but philosophically because it is a philosophical thing. Life is too good. I need a little bitterness to remind myself of the internal tragedy of our existence.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, right. The sweet and sour of the life.

BOURDAIN: One final attempt before I go to extract something meaningful on what it means to be Sicilian.

What's wrong with these people in the north?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: People from the south are coming from these Greek culture where the philosopher while in the north came through and --



BOURDAIN: That's the meanest thing anyone can say.

ALESSANDRO: And the last century, the three best writers in Italy are from Sicily.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Because they consider us a weight like problems.

BOURDAIN: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But finally on summer, they all come here to make . It's a good thing for us, you know?

BOURDAIN: In the end, it all comes back to the "Godfather." We go up this beautiful mountain, this incredible town. It goes back to the 12th century. There are few places on earth more beautiful. But we are sitting in one of the -- it was like a "Godfather" theme park.

Look, Michael Corleone got married there. I want --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: you know, we just look at these people with the "Godfather" T-shirt.



ALESSANDRO: And say oh, my god. Why people get stuck on this, the "Godfather" movie because there is this big sense of .

BOURDAIN: Michael had many options. He destroyed his family. Then everybody, everything he touched.

ALESSANDRO: In a way it's fair.

BOURDAIN: It's fair?

ALESSANDRO: A good movie, for sure.

BOURDAIN: He didn't -- it up. No.

ALESSANDRO: No. No.

ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Anderson Cooper. It's been three months since George Zimmerman was cleared of murder charges in the killing of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin and allowed to walk freely from the spotlight. Instead he appears to be unable to escape that spotlight. He's helped a family from an overturned car, been pulled over for speeding while carrying a gun, and is now involved in an ugly divorce played out before the public in a nasty confrontation caught on camera.

What emotions and circumstances have contributed to making him one of the most recognized men in America today?

David Mattingly puts it all in perspective in this investigation into the case and the trial that riveted a nation.



GEORGE ZIMMERMAN: There's a real suspicion guy that looks like he's up to no good.

UNIDENTIFIED 911 OPERATOR: 911, do you need police, fire or medical?










Cuba. Aired 7-8p ET

Aired December 21, 2015 - 19:00   ET






JOHN F. KENNEDY, 35TH PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Good evening, my fellow citizens. This government, as promised, has maintained the closest surveillance of the Soviet military buildup on the island of Cuba.

BOURDAIN : This is the Cuba I grew up with.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mankind, teeters precariously on the brink of a thermonuclear war.

BOURDAIN: The missile crisis, duck and cover, hide under your desk, kids, cover yourselves with wet newspaper because we're all going to die.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The flames of crisis burn far stronger, fed and fanned by the bitter tirades of Fidel Castro.

BOURDAIN: And this guy, always in the fatigues, underlining with every appearance that we were two nations in a never-ending state of war.

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Today, the United States of America is changing its relationship with the people of Cuba. We will begin to normalize relations between our two countries.

BOURDAIN : Cuba has been sitting here for, what, 55 years now? Half an hour away, basically giving the biggest superpower in the world the stiff middle finger.

: Fifty-plus years of animosity, embargo, rationing, and Fidel Castro is still hanging on. But recently, there are powerful indications that everything is about to change.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are at Hymanita , a little fishing town. This place is called Casa Santione's  by two brothers that go out and fish every morning, bring fresh seafood.

BOURDAIN : OK, humble fishing village, traditional fishing family?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

BOURDAIN: What about the sushi? What's going on in this country, man?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Things are changing, Anthony, what can I say?

My name is Hugo Canseo . I was born in Cuba. I was in one of Cuba's most prominent schools when I made a joke about President Fidel Castro. I was a teenager. And the kid that slept on the bunk bed on top of me recorded our conversation. And I was expelled from school.

My mom said the only choice it for us to leave Cuba. I'm a businessman. I've lived in Miami for 35 years. It's my home base. I come back and forth to Cuba. I've been coming to Cuba for over 20 years. I mean, Cuba is a communist country in economic transition.

Since Raul Castro has allowed Cubans to establish more businesses, there are people that are making money, there are people that have created a tremendous amount of wealth.

BOURDAIN : People with family connections to the States, people tied to the exploding tourist industry, small business owners, taxi drivers, people operating in ever-changing gray areas of what is permissible.

: How's it work right now? If you're Cuban, you can sell your property...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: To another Cuban from Cuba. And that's what's happening right now, a lot of Cuban-Americans, a lot of Cubans living abroad are now coming back and through relatives are buying property.

Obviously somebody has touched this building with some kind of investment. It's renovated. It seems to be like a hotel. Somebody bought the building and turned it into a little hotel.

BOURDAIN: However you feel about the government, however you feel about the last 55 years, there aren't any places in the world that look like this. I mean, it's utterly enchanting.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's very seductive.

BOURDAIN: There is no doubt in my mind that somewhere in the offices of like the Four Seasons hotel chain, they're looking at the sea front and thinking, you know, one of these days. You know, and cruise ships, you know, what happens then?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, look...

BOURDAIN: Is this an inevitable march of progress? Am I being a snob?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, no, you're being very realistic. That's the concern of most Cubans. I wouldn't mind seeing one or two Starbucks around Havana, but hoping we don't go back to 1958, where the majority of Cuban companies were owned by American corporations.

BOURDAIN: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have got to believe that Cuba will want to reserve some of the value that represents, you know, the hearts and soul of the Cuban people.

BOURDAIN : Last time I was in Havana, a meal at a paladar would have been rice and beans. Now, sushi. A certain sign of impending apocalypse.

: That's good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ten years ago this restaurant would have never been allowed, not only because private businesses were not allowed, but the external influence that you're seeing.

Remember, this is a country where chewing gum or listening to The Beatles were prohibited. I don't think we all need to have Twitter every day. I mean, one of the things I love about coming to Cuba is the fact that I can put my iPhone away.

Who cares? Look what we have around us. And I hope that Cubans, as continue to have access to free information, they still want to preserve these family times.

BOURDAIN : Tourists have been coming to Cuba for some time. Predominantly Europeans, many of them men of a certain age looking for, how shall we say, company.

But now it looks like Americans looking to live out fantasies of "Godfather II," will soon be able to do so. And it's all still here for them.

But there's new stuff, too. This is certainly new. Fabrica de Arte, the hottest spot in Havana. A nightclub, performance space, art gallery, highlighting artists, musicians and deejays from around the world. Questlove is scheduled to deejay here tomorrow night.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's like a big bag  when all the arts can fit inside.

BOURDAIN : Right.

: What is going on here? I ask Inti Herrera and X Alfonso, two of the young entrepreneurs behind the place.

: Nothing like this ever existed before. Did the government bureau of arts help you?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We had -- at the beginning, we had subsidies from the ministry of culture. Even the building, we asked for the building because it was abandoned for 13 years.

BOURDAIN: The place is very popular.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right now, yes.

BOURDAIN: Who comes here?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: These people that love art but at the same time, it's very diverse.

BOURDAIN : It attracts a once unthinkable mix of foreigners and locals that enjoys the actual support of the government, without whom, of course, it couldn't exist.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our chef here, we said, is part of the art world, you know, here.

BOURDAIN: A ceviche of dogfish with pickled vegetables. Loin of pork, pan-seared with yucca and a riff on a traditional orange sauce with garlic and coriander.

: Mmm, good.

What do you think is going to happen when the door opens and you have got hundreds of thousands of Americans flooding here, looking desperately to spend money on anything Cuban?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't know, man. We are a small country. We have to adapt to new things. But I think it's a good challenge.

BOURDAIN: I guess I'm asking, how do you keep it real when you'll all probably be millionaires in a few years?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Us?

BOURDAIN: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You think so?

BOURDAIN: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's not our goal in life, but that's...

BOURDAIN: Doesn't matter?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, it doesn't matter. We're going to have booths  and more backers .



BOURDAIN: More backers .







BOURDAIN : Havana still looks like you want it to look. Or maybe just how I want it to look. What was once one of the wealthiest cities in Latin America, left to the elements, left to collapse, were frozen gloriously in time. In fits and starts, Cuba is changing, but it's not sugar or rum

or tobacco or casino gambling that is the new god. It's tourism.

: All right. So here, Chinatown, such as it is. But are there any Chinese left in Havana?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No. There's a few new Chinese.

BOURDAIN: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: At one point the Chinese community in Cuba was huge, but they pretty much cleared out after the revolution, as did most of the Russian-Jewish emigres who were here.

So the state has erected a few quintessentially Chinatown gates, mustered the 14 Chinese people left in Havana to summon their relatives.

BOURDAIN : For more than 35 years, John Lee Anderson  has been reporting from conflict zones such as Syria, Lebanon, Libya, Iraq, and Afghanistan.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I lied about my age and traveled around Africa. When I was 13, I told people I was 26.

BOURDAIN: In the early 1990s, while researching a biography of Che Guevara, he and his family moved to Cuba and ended up staying for three years.

: You lived here during the special period, which was not so special. That was the bad times.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That was the bad times.

BOURDAIN: The Russians had pulled out. Soviets all done.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The economy went like this, 90 percent, it just tanked.

BOURDAIN : Cuba lost 80 percent of its import goods, which led to widespread hunger, malnutrition, and a nosedive for the already difficult quality of life on the island.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There was one place where we could buy food, which was a Soviet-style place with food that was flown in. Quite bad food. Under Fidel's rule, that's the way it was.

BOURDAIN: It's like a cargo cult version of Chinese food here. Dumplings. The Szechuan chicken dish that's about as Szechuan as, well, I am.

: What's going to happen? What's next?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The uptick in tourism, just after the December 17th announcement -- the surprise announcement by Raul and Obama in which they said, we have decided to make friends again, the surge in tourism and American interest in Cuba is like this.

You now have an island where every room is for rent because you can make $30 or $40 a day. That's more than a state employee makes in three months.

BOURDAIN: There will be wealthy hipsters, women in tiny black dresses drinking ironic riffs on the mojito, the lobby of the spanking new W Hotel with "oonce-oonce-oonce" in the background, and that's within five years.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, I would say so.

BOURDAIN: Will every Cuban have an inalienable right to free medical care and education at that time?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's what they're worried about. The last time I was here, which was in 2013, I counted eight to 10 homeless, garbage-eating people in the street. And I thought, wow, I've never seen that before in Cuba.

That's something that the old Cuba, the socialist Cuba that could look after all of its citizens, would never have allowed. It's allowing it now. This period we're here in, it's the lull before it all hits.

The train is coming. It's either going to roar by and they're going to be able to jump on and go with it, or it's going to derail and it will be a mess. All of it's possible.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My mom is asking me if you would like to taste the rice?

BOURDAIN: Oh, it's fantastic.

: Like a lot of Cubans, Yosimi Rodriguez  lives in same working class neighborhood where she was born.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I live with my mom, my sister, my niece. Of course I would like to have my own bedroom. But there are people who don't have a house.

BOURDAIN: You were a translator, is that correct? And you are now a journalist?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, well, I've been writing for Havana Times and then I write also for , which is another independent Web site.

BOURDAIN : She struggles to eke out a living in an industry where the state firmly controls all media.

: What subjects in particular are of interest to you?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Racial issues.

BOURDAIN: Racial disparity. Now this is something that the revolution promised to address.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Their main mistake was to say that they had eradicated racism, that just like it could be eradicated just like that. On the street, for instance, policemen, the first people they stop, black people. If you're black, you are a potential criminal.

BOURDAIN : Her mom, Rosa , prepares a cabbage stew with carrots, tomatoes, and green beans for her as Yosimi is a rare vegetarian on an island where pork is king.

: Oh, fantastic, look at that.

: And for us, pork marinated in garlic, onion, and sour orange.

: Please tell your mom it's superb, really excellent.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mom, .

BOURDAIN: Thank you.

You have a very highly educated public here, one of the most literate nations on earth.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That's funny, we are highly educated, as you said, but we're behind concerning Internet and all that stuff. Most the folks have access to only the official media, the official newspaper.

If Internet comes, and I think the government is trying to delay it, if that comes, many things will change. People will have access to different points of view, and I don't think our government wants that.

BOURDAIN: If everything goes well, what will Havana be like? What will this neighborhood be like in five years?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You know, having a prosperous society doesn't guarantee that it is the same for everyone. You know, you see these people who have been able to use opportunities to open businesses, to open successful restaurants.

Those opportunities are there, but I cannot use them because I don't have money. I don't think it is possible to have a perfect society, but I think it is possible to try.

How you like the food?

BOURDAIN: Oh, it's delicious. Really good. Thank you.





 BOURDAIN : All Cuba seems waiting for something.

For whatever it is that happens next. Today, that's the roar of Detroit's finest. Circa 1959 and before, of course. American dream machines tricked out, babied, pampered, jury-rigged or simply held together with duct tape and bailing wire.

: Nice. What's under the hood?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: V8 American engines. We buy spares. We bring the spares from America.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All we think about through the week is our machines, our V8 engines. You know, car racing in Cuba, they love it here as much as they love baseball.

BOURDAIN: Whoa, that's serious.

: Los Amigos del Motor are diehard gearheads, drag racers who for more than 20 years have been defying the law and escaping the grind of daily life by pressing pedal to the metal and hurdling down the highway faster, faster, fast as they can go.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They just find the best part of the day when there's not so much traffic. You get hundreds and hundreds of people on both sides of the road.

BOURDAIN : Now before it was absolutely illegal.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It has always been illegal. It's only the last couple of weeks that we're going to get sponsorship from the minister of the sports.

BOURDAIN: Everything is changing. It's entirely possible that soon you'll be able to order any part, any car, any car in the world. You can have it tomorrow. What would it be?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Corvette.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Corvette.

BOURDAIN: Corvette. Which year?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Today!



UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is a lunar picnic. It's only to be seen at night. The grills are painted with this fluorescent painting. It's very surrealistic. It's a weird sensation. It's like, make you hungry somehow. BOURDAIN : Along with his creative partner Marco

Castillo, Dago Rodriguez is half of Los Carpinteros, an artistic entity whose work is shown and collected all over the world.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Every single  is a different thing. We have different technology to fabricate and to develop.

BOURDAIN: Los Carpinteros have managed to stay in the government's good graces by widely using irony to make their points. In the brutally competitive and capricious contemporary art world outside of Cuba, they are stars. They make a lot of money. But they always return home to Havana.

: Ah, looks like we'll be eating well.

: Tonight it's a party in Dago's backyard. Kelvis Ochoa  has made his much-loved pig's head soup, with pumpkin, corn, peppers, and sweet potatoes, casaba, and plantain.

: If I saw somebody's house, it was just an ordinary home, but they created their own fast food franchise, they made it look as if it was part of a chain, it was like, you know, Mr. Burger or something like this.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This place can be a  for fast food.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I hope they don't come here soon.

BOURDAIN: Yes, well, this is my biggest fear is that there will be a big glass box of a W Hotel, and start seeing Starbucks and Victoria's Secret, and, you know, all the people who make every place look the same. It would be awful.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, but we have a 50-year lack of money.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is a big problem. The people will freak out with money when they have the money here.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Of course. But, I mean, I think if there's a $200 million hotel project that's sustainable, that preserves the facade of the city, that will get approved first before anything super American per se, you know?

BOURDAIN: Whoa, what's he cooking over there?

: Can't forget the whole roasted pig, a few years back, a pretty unthinkable luxury for just about everybody.

: Oh, wow, soup.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Everything is . They have no money. They have no money.

BOURDAIN: Yes, for -- yes.



UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: None of the pesticides and the hormones yet.

BOURDAIN: Ooh, wow.

: And tamales steamed in the broth from the pig's head soup.

: Life is good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, it is.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think that our culture is so strong that it's going to take a lot of tourists and a lot of boats -- how do you say?

BOURDAIN: Cruise ships.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cruise ships. It's going to take a lot of cruise ships to dissolve this . We're always like this with or without tourists.







UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is a typical street of this neighborhood. Houses of wood, houses of concrete. The street is not in good condition. Here was the bus station. It's not a bus station anymore. Now it's a building. It's a monument of the past.

BOURDAIN : Montea  is a suburb of Havana, home to one of Cuba's most celebrated writers.

LEONARDO PADURA, AUTHOR : My name is Leonardo Padura, I am a writer. And we are in the house where I have lived my whole life.

There are a lot of lines in the Cuban reality that apparently cannot be trespassed. But I think they can be crossed, or at least they can be pushed.

BOURDAIN: Author of the internationally successful Mario Conde detective series, Padura has been able to portray the daily struggles, the absurdities of life in Cuba. It's a delicate dance, and few have been able to replicate it.

: Your hero in the books, does he live in this neighborhood or another neighborhood?

PADURA: More or less. More or less. : Happy place to grow up, this neighborhood?

PADURA: Yes, yes, yes. Totally free.

BOURDAIN: I notice a lot of people just hanging out. Who lives here?

PADURA: All kinds of people. Doctors, for example, engineers, workers.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

PADURA: And people who make nothing, like that guy.

BOURDAIN: Right.

PADURA: He don't make nothing.

BOURDAIN: How does he live?

PADURA: Trying to find something to do or something to sell. Making a small business.

BOURDAIN : Cafeteria a la BBQ is only one example of a booming do-it-yourself service industry. It's a place where you get a lot of bang for your money. Nothing fancy. Just delicious. Fried pork, plantains. And the kind of silky, deeply satisfying beans that dreams are made of.

: This is good, good beans.

PADURA: Yes.

BOURDAIN: You've never had a book blacklisted or banned in Cuba?

PADURA: No. Fortunately, no.

BOURDAIN: Have you been able to say everything that you wanted to say?

PADURA: I try to be the most honest writer that I can be, and I think that I say all that I can say. The problem is that we need in Cuba a lot of money, because it's a very beautiful city, but the people have many problems to live, with the space, with the structure of the buildings.

BOURDAIN : For dessert.

: Awesome.

: Flan, cooked in a cut down beer can.

: Thank you.

You're a successful author. You've been around the world, you've traveled? PADURA: Mm-hmm.

BOURDAIN: During difficult periods of Cuban history, I'm sure you had many opportunities to live in Miami or Barcelona or Los Angeles. And yet you stayed in the same house, the same neighborhood. Why?

PADURA: Because I like it. I need to live in Cuba, near to the Cuban people, near to the Cuban language. For me, it's very, very important.

BOURDAIN : Yes, the future is here. But the past, too, is everywhere. The buildings, the cars, the gears of the whole system are still largely stuck in time.

JUANA BACALLAO, SINGER : My name is Juana Bacallao. Juana la Cubana.

BOURDAIN: Ninety-three-year-old Juana Bacallao is very much a part of that past.

BACALLAO: I have dedicated myself to my art, to singing for the people my entire life.

BOURDAIN: Long before the revolution, she was a shining star at the Meyer Lansky's Tropicana, singing for Capone, Luciano, you know the names.

BACALLAO: Always "Juana! Juana!" when I try to get into my car. And that is the life I have always known with the people.

I go on stage every day at midnight, with my orchestra.

Cuba has always been divine. It is a wonderful fountain of friends. All the people love me. As long as there is light I will sing.







BOURDAIN : Cuba is not Havana. It's a bigger country than you might imagine, and the road to Santiago de Cuba, the country's second-largest city, takes you 12 hours on their less-than- modern highway system.

Along the way, you see agrarian Cuba, the country in which most Cubans lived pre-revolution.

Santiago is a poorer city. It's blacker. And unlike Havana, the symbols and faces of the revolution still seem to mean something.

These Brutalist prefab workers' housing complexes are everywhere here, and at first glance, hell, at second glance, they look like something you would house animals in. But for many previously living even poorer, harsher lives in the countryside, these offered something new. Each group of buildings came with a doctor, a school.

Still, they look about as grim as grim can be. Yet, Santiago is anything but grim. Siboney Beach is where locals go on the weekend to kick back with family, drink the best rum in Cuba, which means the best rum anywhere, swim, hang with family and friends.

: Hola, gentlemen, we will be needing some bassos .

: Ranel  is our local fixer. Ruben  is in the bar business. Sergio  rents rooms to the occasional tourist, everybody getting by, making the adjustment to private enterprise Cuba in their own way.

: Until a few years ago, you couldn't rent or sell, right?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE : No. It was different. Years ago you could rent...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A long time ago was allowed to rent house but no sell and buy.

BOURDAIN: What kind of fish is this?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Dorado.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's huge.

BOURDAIN : Fresh-caught dorado and lobster is on the menu.

: Do they think this is going to change? I mean, look, we've all been following the news.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE : We will have a tourism that we've never had before. North American tourists.

BOURDAIN: Right. Half an hour away. I mean, they can basically take a boat over for lunch. What do you think Americans want?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They have no idea, because they have never talked to an American tourist before.

BOURDAIN: Looking good now, man. Good rum, cold beer, good fish, good lobster. You'll be needing a blender for pina coladas.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If they have no machine, they're going to do it by hand.



BOURDAIN: Let me put it this way, my friend, you're going to be making a lot of pina coladas. I think you're going to need the machine.

: Night time is party time, where everybody, it appears, at least from when I was there, hit the streets. Mom, dad, sis, even grandma get, well, crazy.

It used to be son and trova that ruled the streets. This was where those musical styles were born, after all. But now it's reggaeton and, of course, hip hop.

Alain Garcia  is the leader of the Santiago-based hip hop trio TNT la Resistencia.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We've been making hip hop for 15 years, which is quite difficult here in Cuba. We've been in jail three days once just for make hip hop.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Definitely it's a change in Cuba, but I don't think it's because the relations with the United States are getting better. It's because the people just realize we need change. We still want a kind of society where every participates, everyone is determining the future of our society.

BOURDAIN : so born and bred in Santiago, where the good rum comes from?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Exactly.

BOURDAIN: So tell me, music business in Santiago, but what are you doing?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Music here is more important than a plate of food for people. When it's Carnival sometimes people doesn't have money for proper food, but they've got money for like a jar of beer and just enjoying that beer in a place with music.

BOURDAIN: How much American hip hop do you get here?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We get actually quite a lot. It's by friends. Someone came from outside, then was passed to me and then passed to my friends, and that's it. It's hand by hand.

In the beginnings, in the '90s, we start to make hip hot here, and we get a lot of problems. People came from the States, they are like the everlasting enemy of the revolution, so you are making the music, a protest music.

BOURDAIN: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So we have been a couple times in jail just for songs.

BOURDAIN: So now you can make money performing?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

BOURDAIN: You can maybe make money selling? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: CDs in the streets, but actually right now,

more possibilities are common. We have the opportunity to like promote the music. We have the opportunity to having access to Internet, free access, I mean.

BOURDAIN: That's going to be the biggest thing.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. If you want to spend your holidays proper in Cuba, just come to Santiago. I've got a couple of things to show to you.

BOURDAIN: Cheers, man.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cheers, man. To Santiago.







BOURDAIN: Hola.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hola.

BOURDAIN: Let's do it.

Hi, I'm Tony.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hi, my name is George .

BOURDAIN: How long you have been driving a taxi?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: For more than 20 years.

BOURDAIN: For mostly Cubans or tourists?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, tourists, most of them Spanish, Italian, even people from Canada, a lot of Canadian people.

BOURDAIN: You from Santiago?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, I was born in Santiago. I was . I used to live in Russia for . I started there.

BOURDAIN: Really?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, I was really young . And I really enjoyed it.

BOURDAIN: Oh, yes? Because it's supposed to be cold there.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you imagine the difference, Cuba, Russia, snow? The first time I saw, I sent to my mom a lot of pictures of holding snow, throwing snow. 

BOURDAIN: So what were you studying in Russia?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mechanical engineering.

BOURDAIN: So you went from engineering to taxi driving?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, yes. In 1990s, the Russians left us alone. We got in trouble with the economy, so I have to change my job.

BOURDAIN: So it looks like the embargo might end, you know, a lot of money going to start coming to Cuba. Do you think it's going to change?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think that the American businessmen will invest in Cuba, and that will be good for everyone.

BOURDAIN: How about going back to engineering?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You know, that will depend on how much it would pay.

BOURDAIN: All right, OK.

: What next for Cuba? Something is coming. It will come from out there, but also from within Cuba. It's already happening, but what is it? Everybody knows, everybody can feel it, it smells like freedom, but will it be victory?













Iran

Aired December 17, 2015 - 21:00   ET




ANTHONY BOURDAIN, CNN HOST: I am so confused. It wasn't supposed to be like this. Of all of the places, of all the countries, all the years of traveling, it's here in Iran that I am greeted most warmly by total strangers.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ala .

BOURDAIN: The other stuff is there, the Iran we've read about, heard about, seen in the news. But this -- this I wasn't prepared for.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE : I took a walk through this beautiful world felt the cool rain on my shoulder, found something good in this beautiful world. I felt the rain getting colder.



BOURDAIN: Thank you. Merci. Good to be here finally. It's taken some time. Like a lot of time. Like four years I've been trying. Finally.

Tehran. City of nearly 8 million people. Capital of Iran.  unlike, there are neighborhoods of Rome this feels a lot like.

After all of this time I finally have my chance to see a country I'd heard so much about.

: The weather is nice, too. I don't know what I was expecting. But it is nice.

: A big blank spot on nearly every traveler's resume.

: Merci. Delicious. Thank you.



UNIDENTIFIED CHILD: Once upon a time there was an ancient kingdom where they found a lot of magical black stuff under the ground.

But two other kingdoms had the key to the magical black stuff. And when they wouldn't share. The people of the ancient kingdom got mad. They voted and their leader said the magical black stuff is ours to keep. But the other kingdoms wear afraid of losing all of the magical black stuff so they gave money to some bad men to get rid of the leader. They put back in power another leader. And they gave him money too. To some he was a good king. But to others he could be very cruel. After many years the people of the kingdom got mad. This time even madder. So they scared the king away forever. And then things started to get really messed up.

BOURDAIN: OK. That's a simplistic, and incomplete way to sum up the last 100-odd years of Iranian history. But the point is there were a lot of issues and differing agendas leading up to the explosion of rage known as the Iranian hostage crisis. Look, we know what Iran the government does. George W. Bush famously called them part of the axis of evil. Their proxies in Iraq have done American soldiers real harm. There was no doubt of this. But I hope I can be forgiven for finding these undeniable truths hard to reconcile with how we are treated on the streets everywhere we go. So forget about the politics if you can for a moment. How about the food? The food here is amazing.

Chelo-kabob, as close as you get to a national dish and the king of kabobs. Ground lamb with spices, a good place to start.

: So what do you guys do for a living?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I export nuts.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I am a curator of contemporary art.

BOURDAIN: Which is an exploding scene here?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Iranian culture has three different culture. Western culture, Iranian and Islamic culture. It's really . It has changed a lot during the last decade.

BOURDAIN: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So this is the actual 

BOURDAIN: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I would recommend you to try this one. And this one. And this one.

BOURDAIN: OK.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why not?



BOURDAIN : Chelo-kabob wouldn't be complete without Persian rice. Fluffy, long grained, and perfectly seasoned with saffron, the rice in this country us like anything you have ever had.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So, Tony, first you should take the butter and put it on your rice. Bon appetite.

BOURDAIN : Bon appetite.

It's good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's good.



: It was a hopeful time when I arrived in Iran. A window had opened. There had been a slight loosening of restrictions since the election of President Hassan Rouhani. And there was optimism for a deal that could lead to an easing of crippling economic sanctions imposed because of Iran's continued nuclear program. Trade restrictions that have been very, very difficult for everyone. But there is a push happening between opposing factions in the government. On one hand, Iranians are the descendants of ancient Persia. And empire of poetry. Flowers, the highly influential culture that goes back thousands of years. But the ruling clerical and military class are at best ambivalent and at worst actively hostile to much of that tradition. Severe religious based restrictions of speech, dress, behavior were ushered in by the rise of the ayatollah during the 1979 Islamic Revolution.

So how does one have fun in Iran these days? This is the line that is constantly being tested. Alcohol is, of course, forbidden. You can get away with listening to rock or rap. Sort of. Sometimes. But you cannot yourself rock or be seen to visibly rock. Not everyone in Iran is delighted with what their country has become since the revolution. But even insinuating discontent can have consequences. Protesters, dissidents, journalists have been simply disappeared into the moor  of the national security system.

LOCAL CREW: Military.

BOURDAIN : What?

LOCAL CREW: Some military place. Don't shoot, please.

LOCAL CREW: These are 

JASON REZAIAN, WASHINGTON POST CORRESPONDENT: We are in this northern most land of Tehran, up here in Derbend , the road stops and it gets really steep. The place for Iranians to escape the heat, escape the pollution. And have a kabob. And a shisha, and just kind of unwind.

As print journalists our job is difficult, but it's also kind of easy. Because there is so much to write about. You know it, the difficult part is convincing people on the other side of the world that what we are telling you, we are seeing in front of our eyes is actually there. When you walk down the street you see a different side of things. People are proud. The culture is vibrant. People have a lot to say.

BOURDAIN : Jason Rezaian is "the Washington Post" correspondent for Iran, Yeganeh, his wife and a fellow journalist works for the UAE based newspaper "The National." Jason is Iranian- American. Yeganeh is a full Iranian citizen. This is their city, Tehran.

: The official attitude towards fun in general seems to be an ever-shifting -- is fun even a good idea? REZAIAN: A lot of push and pull. A lot of give and take. When I

first started coming here you wouldn't hear pop music in a restaurant or ...

BOURDAIN: Right.

YEGANEH SALEHI: It's everywhere now.

BOURDAIN: Now it is everywhere.

YEGANEH SALEHI: We have police. They arrest girls or women for having bad hijab, or not being covered enough. But it's not that we live with the police in our head, you know.

BOURDAIN: You know, one of the first things that people will say when you say, I'm going to Iran. Yeah, but don't they make women dupe this, this, this, this.

REZAIAN: Actually -- not so much, not as much as our friends.

BOURDAIN: Compare and contrast, women aren't allowed to drive in Saudi Arabia.

YEGANEH SALEHI: That's right. Or vote.

BOURDAIN: Or vote. You can drive. You can vote?

YEGANEH SALEHI: Yeah, of course.

BOURDAIN: Can you open business?

YEGANEH SALEHI: Of course.

My sister is an accountant. She has her own company. Girls are allowed to do almost everything, except if you want to go and watch football, which is ...

BOURDAIN: Can't they watch football?

YEGANEH SALEHI: We cannot.

BOURDAIN : Women's issues are often at the spear point of change or possible change here. On one hand, prevailing conservative attitudes demand certain things. On the other hand, Iranian women are famously assertive, opinionated. It's a striking difference from almost everywhere else in the region.

: So, why are we so friendly with the Saudis again?

: It's a great question. It's a really good question.

YEGANEH SALEHI: And I'm happy that you asked that question.



BOURDAIN: Do you like it? Are you happy here? REZAIAN: Look, I am at a point now after five years where -- I miss

certain things about home. I miss my buddies. I miss burritos. I miss having certain beverages with my buddies and burritos.



REZAIAN: Certain types of establishments. But I love it. I love it -- and I hate it. You know. But it's home. It's become home.

BOURDAIN: Are you optimistic about the future?

YEGANEH SALEHI: Yeah. Especially, if there is no  finally happens. Yeah. Very much, actually.

BOURDAIN : Despite the hopeful nature of our conversation, six weeks after the filming of this episode, Jason and Yeganeh were mysteriously arrested and detained by the police. Sadly in Iran, this sort of thing is not an isolated incident.



BOURDAIN: What is OK to film in Iran and what is not? What is OK to the friendly, to us, at least, Ministry of Guidance, might not be OK at all for the Basij, essentially, roving young religious militias. Despite all permits and paperwork being in order we are detained for several hours. This sort of harassment is a daily part of life for Iranians.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just turn it off right now.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.

BOURDAIN : I'm so glad to be here. I like your fellow ...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sebastian.

BOURDAIN: 

People have been ridiculously nice to us. Aren't you guys supposed to be the axis of evil?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You are absolutely right. We are demonized by the media outside. You show black and white. People are demonstrating, and killing, and bombing. And this and that. And you never see - this and that. But you never talk about the real people. Who are actually living peacefully inside the country? You know? And eventually in the future of the world. We and Americans have a very special place in this, you cannot play a game without considering Iran as a friend.

BOURDAIN : One of Ferog's  many passions is ancient Persia, culinary history in particular, and he is writing a book on the subject.

: How do you pronounce the specialty here? Vizi ?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Service called Dizi , which actually is the name of the pot.

BOURDAIN: That's right. It's like an Earthenware.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

BOURDAIN: Right.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is one of the ending dishes of humankind. It goes back to Mesopotamia 6,000 years ago.

BOURDAIN: Potato, chick peas, water. Lamb. Cooked together.

: Add a little fat. Mash it up with potatoes and chick peas.

: That's good. What do Iranians want to eat today? It is a home cooking culture. I mean ...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. We didn't have the culture of eating out. This is a culture of secret foods in the House. Things, which are unheard of. It's not in the book. Secret.

BOURDAIN: That is really, really interesting.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A lot of secrets.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Have you ever tried traditional Iranian food?

BOURDAIN: It is difficult. Because everybody says the great food of Iran is cooked in people's homes.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.

BOURDAIN : This is a land of secret recipes. Passed down within families like treasured possessions.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. Tony, please.

BOURDAIN : Beautiful spread of food.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She is my wife. And I am a really lucky man. She is very good to cook.

BOURDAIN : Prijan  like so many other Iranians I've met has been kind enough to invite me to his home.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is milk soup. Milk and chicken soup.

BOURDAIN : It is really good.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE : My mom said that Iranian people loves guests. And they will never get tired if the guest likes their food.

He's called it fesanjan .

BOURDAIN : A stew of fried chicken, onion, ground walnuts, pomegranate, and tomato paste.

: And this fruit. There's some kind of fruit.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, there's the dried apricot inside .

BOURDAIN: Delicious. So good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Needed around 24 hours' time.

BOURDAIN : These are very sophisticated, very time consuming dishes to prepare. Always from scratch and always in excess of what you could possibly need. You tend to kill your guests with kindness around here.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Pinopina . That dish is from the south of Iran.

BOURDAIN : From the Persian Gulf?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This one is from the north.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mahia halva .

BOURDAIN: Maybe if I could try some?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This one?

BOURDAIN: Yes. Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Of course.

And that one is peyme . We made it with beans, meat.

BOURDAIN: It's so good.

Mm, fantastic food.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Men and wife, both of them working.

BOURDAIN: It's hard to do something like this.

That's what I've been waiting. That's the crispy rice at the bottom right there. What is it called? Tareq? Is that?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Tariq.

BOURDAIN: Tariq.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Exactly.

BOURDAIN: Merci.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My mom and my mother-in-law, they think if they have a guest they have to at least two or three kind of foods. And if they make just one they think that it is not very polite for a guest. But now they set the example for my generation. That I have a guest I will just make one food. One appetizer. And one dessert.

BOURDAIN: You know why? You know why?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Because it is much easier.





BOURDAIN: Times have changed. Pre-1979 Tehran was party central. But with Iran's 1979 revolution, 2500 years of monarchy was over. The Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Khomeini's word became more or less -- law. Today hundreds of thousands of Iranians are bussed to his enormous shrine from all over the country. The national holiday, Khomeini died on this day in 1989. His funeral attended by over 10 million Iranians.

CROWD 

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

CROWD 

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Down with ignorance. Viva wisdom!

CROWD 

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Some of Iranian  we need , and maybe - in all of the world for friendship.

CROWD 

BOURDAIN: Don't want to miss the bus.

: South of Tehran, the landscape opens up. Only 300 miles of Iranian highway stretching to the city of Isfahan. Isfahan is Iran's third largest city. Half the world, is the saying, went back when this was the capital of Persia and beyond.

The city is renowned for its architecture, the grandest bridges and mosques dating back to the Middle Ages. The USA? From America. Where are you from? From Isfahan? Or from Tehran?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Tehran.

BOURDAIN: Well, nice to meet you.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Nice to meet you too.

BOURDAIN: Yes. Hello.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Welcome to Iran.

BOURDAIN: Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Welcome to Isfahan.

BOURDAIN: Thank you so much.

It's very beautiful.

I guess into the decor, this is a former wrestlers' hangout?

: Tucked deep in the labyrinth of Isfahan's bazaar, the smell of something, very, very good. This shop has been here doing the same thing for 100 years. And based on the line it must be doing it right.

: I have had biryani in India. I've had it in Uzbekistan. But there is no question who invented biryani. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No. No way.

BOURDAIN : Biryani. Maybe you know the word, though this doesn't look like any biryani I have ever had. Minced lamb shoulder, onion, turmeric, cinnamon, mint, and of course, saffron. More valuable than gold by weight.

: This is delicious.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Very good.

BOURDAIN: Isfahan today one of the most visited areas by tourists?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah, everybody knows, if you come to Iran and you don't visit Isfahan, you are wasting your time.

BOURDAIN : The royal mosques, it's Imam Square, the second largest square in the world behind Tiananmen in China. At dusk families come to the square to cool off, picnic, and have, yes, it looks like even a little bit of fun.



BOURDAIN: Morning prayer in Isfahan.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

BOURDAIN: Across town the Khaju Bridge where men gather spontaneously to sing.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE 

BOURDAIN: Is this OK? This impromptu giving oneself over to the creative urge to stand and sing out to no one in particular? Maybe, but not OK apparently to film.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gotta go.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Got to go. BOURDAIN: The road back to Tehran. Along the way, reminders of just how far back this culture goes. The ruins of ancient caravanserais, highway rest stops from when armies, merchants, traders traveling by camel by foot all passed along these same routes. This right here a stop on what was once the Silk Road extending all the way to China.

In this part of the world, whatever your background, bread is a vital, essential, fundamental and deeply respected staple. In mornings in Tehran countless bakeries like this one turn out as much as they can.

: It smells good in here.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have to stay in line.

BOURDAIN: No problem.

: Standing in line is a daily part of life for many Iranians.

: They bake these things on small stones. Gives it that texture.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is why it is called sangak - Sang is stone, pebble.

BOURDAIN : In the years since the 1979 revolution, Iranians have weathered wars, food shortages, and crippling trade sanctions, that have caused the economy to sputter.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So I am going to make you a small table, all right?

BOURDAIN: Movak  is kind enough to take me for breakfast.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is called .

BOURDAIN : Awesome. And it is made from bulgur wheat?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

And you know what is inside except wheat? It is meat. It is turkey. This is a mixture of sugar and cinnamon.

BOURDAIN : That's good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you like?

BOURDAIN: Yeah, and the spread is amazing.

So, you were how old when the war with Iraq started?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I was exactly seven.

BOURDAIN: Iraq attacked ...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah. BOURDAIN: And it was a surprise attack.

: Iran's eight year long war with Saddam Hussein's Iraq is deeply, deeply felt. Hundreds of thousands of Iranians, many of them children died fighting in that conflict.

: Were you afraid?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We were afraid. My brother was -- in the front. For three years out of eight. And it was not only my brother, many young people like him. Eight years of war, you know. With a country that is supported by many big powers.

BOURDAIN : And it is worth mentioning whatever you think, wherever we are now, that Saddam supported by the U.S. government and with our full knowledge used Sarin and mustard gas on hundreds of thousands of Iranians. Less known in America, known and felt by everyone in Iran.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And it was a mistake of the United States at the time. They made a bad memory for Iranians.

BOURDAIN : But still people are indeed really, really nice here.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Because people here don't hate Americans. You had a coup. And then a revolution everything. And then you captured the embassy. And he is finished. And then - killed each other. We didn't have a real fight. So it can be some political misunderstanding which is resolved, which will be resolved, maybe, I hope.

BOURDAIN: Inshallah .

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Inshallah.



BOURDAIN : So far, Iran does not look and does not feel the way I had expected. Neither East nor West, but always somewhere in the middle.

: Well it looks spectacular.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You can't have this in the restaurant. It is time consuming. It is very expensive. So you have to - Persian cuisine has to be experienced in somebody's home.

BOURDAIN: Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So this one here is called basvurmah .

BOURDAIN: It's slow cooked lamb in yogurt.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: In yogurt, and saffron and egg yolks.

BOURDAIN : Nazilla , a prominent art gallery owner insisted I come over for lunch with her friends and family.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And here we have the sour cherry rice. The maples and chicken.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sour cherries. More than any other nation, I think we love sour.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: Rahim , the cook, has been with the family for generations. Rice mixed with yogurt and saffron baked into a crispy dough. Don't think of rice as a side dish around here. It can be the main event.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK. Very, very good.

BOURDAIN : You put far more on the -- table than anyone can conceivably eat. Is that?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you don't like your guest you don't put anything.



UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And here we have kuftah , which is a large meatball.

BOURDAIN : Kuftah tamrisi : Ground beef, onion, and cooked rice. Walnuts, dried apricots, boiled egg and barberries.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Anyway, we are a very interesting nation.

BOURDAIN : And very confusing.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Extremely confusing.

BOURDAIN: The contradictions are just.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Enormous.

BOURDAIN: Enormous.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Iranians we take you to our house, and we take you to our hearts. And now - and in that way we are extreme. You know, we are extremists in so many ways.

BOURDAIN: You see this tortured relationship between America and Iran for many years. How do you think most Americans will react when they see this?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They will start coming.



UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It is very important for as Iranians to get sure - to make sure that we are seen as humans here, not the so-called enemy or the darkness of Iran. You know, like you go to anybody's house in Iran, and I am sure they will welcome you.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The axis of evil. We are not the axis of evil. Just normal evil like everybody else.



UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Ten years ago Iran was, people they had hope for future, young people. They wanted to travel. They had a little bit of money. But because of sanctions. This sanction really squeeze everybody. Eight years, no foreign investment here. And so it was very difficult time.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Terrible. Terrible.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And, in the population is really young. 70 percent are under 35. And the thing is, they do - much more than what they have now. They want to have good job, they want to - you know, have families, but is not possible now for them.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I hope we can have more faith in the ordinary Americans, because every little change in the policy of the Western country, it really, really affects our lives here.

BOURDAIN: The Milad Tower. Iran's tallest building and the symbol of national pride. It rises 1,000 feet in the air and looks out at all Tehran and beyond.

We were out on the observation deck taking it all in, trying to make some sense of it all. Our time in Iran was coming to an end and it was impossible to say, was a window opening? Or was it only a moment in time before it shut again?

You learn pretty quickly that in Iran, there is plenty of gray area. An undefined territory. Where is the line? It seems to change with barely a moment's notice.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK. Here it comes.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This isn't the first time that we have experienced such thing.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Stay away from the glass.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Please follow me.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Please stop filming.



BOURDAIN: Last day in Iraq. Night falls, and the kids, like kids anywhere, get in their rides and head for somewhere they can hang out.

: Amazing ...



BOURDAIN: American classics here. Where do you get them?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Old men. Old people, yeah.

BOURDAIN: Right. And then fix them up?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Mustang? Camaro.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Camaro.

BOURDAIN: Firebird?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Pontiac.

BOURDAIN: That's a perfect L.A. car right there.



BOURDAIN: Is this a car club or is this people just come?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We hang out this way. These are our friends.

BOURDAIN: Well, I call back for little delivery.

: One last thing everyone has been telling me I have to try. Iranian take-out pizza.

: It comes with ketchup.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do you think about Iranian pizza?

BOURDAIN: Not bad.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Not bad.

BOURDAIN: We don't put ketchup on pizza, though.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I love ketchup.

BOURDAIN : I could spend my youth, pretty much, doing this. Hanging out in a parking lot?

: Let's assume the worst. Let's assume that you cannot see any way to reconcile what you think of Iran with your own personal beliefs. You just generally don't approve.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: I think those are exactly the sort of places you should go.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Totally.

BOURDAIN: See who we're talking about and where we're talking about here.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it's almost un-American not to go to those places. You know?

BOURDAIN: I don't know that I can put it in any kind of perspective. I feel deeply conflicted. Deeply confusing, exhilarating, heartbreaking, beautiful place.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah. Exactly.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: American cars are crazy.

BOURDAIN: American cars are crazy and they're fun.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

BOURDAIN: All I can tell you is, Iran I've seen on TV and read about in the papers, it's a much bigger picture. Let's put it this way. It's complicated.



BOURDAIN: After ten weeks, Yeganeh was finally released. But as I read these lines, Jason remains a prisoner. His future, the reasons for their arrest, are still unknown.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One, two, three!

BOURDAIN: Thank you, guys.

UNIDENTIFIED MALES: Thank you. Thank you, sir.

BOURDAIN: We'll see you.

END











Beirut. Aired 9-10p ET

Aired December 10, 2015 - 21:00   ET




ANTHONY BOURDAIN, CNN HOST: There's no place else even remotely like it. Everything great and all the world's ills, all in one glorious, messed up magical maddening magnificent city. Beirut. It's good to be back.

The Mediterranean Sea itself trembles. The ground shakes beneath the wheels of our heavy metal thunder. Back in Beirut, after all these years. The first time I was here did not end well but it made no difference to me. I love it here. In spite of everything, I love it here.

Nice ride. It's a good way to see Beirut.

RAMSEY SHORT: This is very similar to that place we went to years ago, Baba .

BOURDAIN: Right.

SHORT: This is Reddick. This is your, you know, traditional chicken sandwich shawarma.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Deep fry it broast.

BOURDAIN: The broasted chicken was this guy's idea, my British Lebanese friend born to be wild Ramsey Short who I met in the bad old days of 2006. Apparently he's in with the Lebanese chapter of the Harley Davidson group, or HOG for short. So when you roll into some religiously conservative villages on these monster bikes and leather jackets what's the reaction?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Two types. Once we were pelted with rice from the balcony. And they thought we were like a wedding or something really nice. And the other extreme was stones like on the wheels like just get out of here.

BOURDAIN: Really?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: I wouldn't throw stones at people on Harleys. Whoa. Look at this.

SHORT: Let's dig in.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The food. BOURDAIN: Get now to work.

UNIDENTIFED MALE: And this is a famous neighborhood of the city. This area, there was central during the civil war.

UNIDENTIFED MALE: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: The sheer volume of fire that was poured into some of these buildings is absolutely unbelievable.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. So, many battles happened on the same place over...

BOURDAIN: Over and over and over and over again.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Over again.

BOURDAIN: Clearly.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I notice this every time someone visiting the city they just point at that. Look at that. But you know, we don't see them anymore. And we just pass by them.

BOURDAIN: Beirut, seemingly the world in miniature. 18 religious sects recognized. More than 2 million Christians, over a 1.5 million Shiites, a 1.5 million Sunni, nearly 500,000 Palestinians and now by some estimates as many as 2 million Syrians, all living and somehow getting along, kind of, in a country the size of Connecticut.

[21:05:15] But along its borders the country has what you might call serious neighbor issues. ISIS in Syria threatening to expand its so called caliphate into Lebanon. ISIS in many ways is something we've never really seen before. It's really large, well-organized, well- equipped terrorist army.

UNIDENTIFED MALE: Lebanon stayed Zebeck refugees are nearly two years now. The country simply can't take any more.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: A quarter of Lebanon's population is now Syrian. That is the equivalent to the U.S. taking in 83 million Syrians.

BOURDAIN: This could be spiraling and if you said the real fear is that violence across the border, these Syrians boiling out, spilling over into an already neighbor now.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Beirut struggles to put a lid on the simmering sectarian tensions.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The aftermath of that happening in Beirut as well some of the flashes that took place.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The exchange of gun fire is heated in Shia as two Palestinian brothers were shot.

BOURDAIN: Here block by block you see the scars from the 15 year Civil War that only ended in the '90s but also nightclubs, discos, beaches, bikinis where much of the Arab world comes to let their hair down. It is an incongruous mix.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All these hiding within them fear that violence is the beginning.

BOURDAIN: The Burj el-Barajneh neighborhood has long been the home to principally Palestinian refugees but more recently it's become a refuge for Syrians fleeing the barrel bombs of President al-Assad on one hand and the predations of ISIS on the other.

The camp saw heavy fighting, shelling and outright massacres during the religious conflict known as the Lebanese Civil war. Everywhere you see posters representing a full menu of political factions and affiliations from al-Assad loyalists to the PLO to every flavor of extremist.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A victory for jihad of equity or martyrism.

BOURDAIN: Do you know of any other place in the region where all of these groups are co-existing within a confined space?

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It is stunning to be walking down the street with high knee short skirts and busting on some red wine flowing and then drive straight into an extraordinarily conservative down Shiite district. That's below our district. He suspects the bomb by bought the West coast terrorist organization. It is kind of mind blowing.

BOURDAIN: I am not a geopolitical expert and as much time as I spent in this part of the world I spent nowhere near the amount of time this guy has, Nick Paton Walsh, CNN senior international correspondent.

WALSH: Most of the groups here are now more terrified of those some crazy Islamic radicals across the border in Syria than they ever have been of each other.

BOURDAIN: What do we call this neighborhood, what is it?

WALSH: It's now one of the Calgarian mixed refugee areas that Beirut has.

BOURDAIN: Close to 2 million people from Syria alone.

WALSH: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: That's a hell of a lot to be absorbed by a tiny little nation of what 4.5 million?

WALSH: Well it's just loads of people. Focus on many people with nowhere to go. You see it in how cell phones don't sometimes work the way they should. He brought the sheer water at their home as hot bad infrastructure of this also district. And she is a mount and is also.

BOURDAIN: We'll follow you.

NAJEM, ENGLISH TEACHER : OK. Well the first time in the history, a Palestinian leads American. That's nice. WALSH: Don't let the neighbors know about that.

NAJEM: Yes.

BOURDAIN: In Syria, Mr. Najem was an English teacher.

[21:10:02] Needless to say he had at one time a better life back there.

NAJEM: I came from Syria. After the civil war started...

WALSH: Yeah.

NAJEM: ... there. We all live in a house with many, many problems. Sectarian problems and we don't want to add more problems for those people. But what can we do? We live here in this camp. Imagine the situation here. It is unbelievable.

He is married by the way and he has three kids. And despite his wounds he works in an construction. This family bought this wood in order to protect house from the rats. These children need medical operation but this family can't pay for those operations because they are expensive. They are waiting for to do. They wait for nothing. They wait for the help of God.

BOURDAIN: Straining under the weight of all of these unasked for guests the Lebanese government has begun making it very difficult for them.

NAJEM: He doesn't work only because he doesn't have an official residence so he can't leave the camp. Otherwise he will be arrested.

BOURDAIN: Being stopped at any of the city's ubiquitous military check points could mean a one way ticket back to Syria, trapped, unable to work, they exist invisibly on the margins of society.

NAJEM: You know, who put those here. This is military area. You don't want to get involved in any problem.

BOURDAIN: Syrian food?

NAJEM: This is Syrian. It is called the seven countries. It consists of many kinds of vegetables, seven kinds of food. But this thing that's in Syria, most of them are well-educated doctors, engineers, lawyers, teachers.

WALSH: But here now it's the opposite, right?

NAJEM: Here in Lebanon even if you were a doctor or a lawyer or a teacher, you can work only in the camp. We don't know how to go, where to go, to go back to Syria.

BOURDAIN: No camel?

NAJEM: To cross the sea.

BOURDAIN: Yeah.

NAJEM: Suppose that there is authority collect us and to throw us away to Syria. What is going to happen? We have no area in the world. We have no place in this universe. We belong to nowhere. Nowhere.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Welcome at in Lebanon. Hello.



[21:16:08]

BOURDAIN: Once known as the Paris of the Middle East, Beirut still clings to its glamorous 1960's image, a chic tourist destination where you can famously ski and go to the beach all in the same day. Walking at corniche it's easy to forget, for a moment anyway, what's going on not far from here?

MO, LOCAL SECURITY SPECIALIST: All the people who live here it is of course safe preferred. This is endless. Someday outside their houses and this is one of their traditional places. This is the way I lived all my life.

BOURDAIN: Mo is a local security specialist on assignment to keep well, me and my crew safe from harm. He lives with his daughter, Lushra  and his family in Ras, Beirut, a mixed neighborhood of Christians, Muslims and Jews.

Little oil in the middle it's I recall, yes?

MO: Yes.

BOURDAIN: So good. Very good fish. I missed this country. I really did.

MO: You have been here before?

BOURDAIN: This is my third time. My first time was 2006. We came here, we had two perfect days and then the war broke out. During my first trip here in 2006, Hezbollah guerillas killed three Israeli soldiers and captured two others in a cross border raid. In the 34- day war that followed, much of Beirut was heavily pounded by bombs and naval artilleries.

I fell in love with the city. Under the worst possible situation, you have this really extraordinary mix of religions and people. How is that? Why? What's so special about it? Why?

MO: Of course, somebody on Friday go to pray, somebody on Sunday go to pray. But they go to the same restaurant and have the same food has the same drink. They have the same tradition.

LUSHRA, MO'S DAUGHTER: There is no place better than Lebanon. You have everything. People are friendly. Beautiful, fantastic.

BOURDAIN: It is a Democracy here. MO: Of course. You have choice to sit down and talk. I like this. I don't like this.

BOURDAIN: So what's in look like now?

MO: You know, we looked like we are two months before 2006.

BOURDAIN: Wow, that's not good.

MO: Tension is a little bit high but the people, they are very happy, you know, we are very happy. I go with my family outside.

BOURDAIN: I was watching the news last night in the hotel, it is genuinely terrifying.

MO: This is Lebanon. It's raining today, tomorrow is sunny. It's happening all the time. You'll get used to it.

BOURDAIN: You get used to it. Are you concerned or optimistic?

LOSHRA: No, I'm optimistic. Yeah.

BOURDAIN: Do your friends feel the same way?

LOSHRA: Not really. Not all.

BOURDAIN: Really, your friends are less optimistic?

LOSHRA: Yeah.

MO: We have only one good neighbor that don't affect us.

BOURDAIN: Yeah.

MO: It helped us all the time, if were sick. He brings the fish and we have fish. And he never get upset from us.

[21:26:24]

UNIDENTIFED MALE: I'm back.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

We are back in the hiz-ouse.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm there too.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah. This is radio Beirut.

UNIDENTIFED MALE: 

BOURDAIN: Is that quite, yes. Yes, I think it is. Ironic glasses, vintage clothing and neck beards. It appears the Brooklyn strain has spread even to Beirut. TINO, SYRIAN FILIPINO RAPPER: Radio Beirut. Live and direct.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It is the CNN and everything.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: CNN has become the most trusted name in news. Same way a broken clock is trusted to be right twice a day.

TINO: CNN changed their slogan from this is CNN to at least it's not Fox news.

BOURDAIN: How is it possible this mix of religions and cultures?

TINO: You know, geographically how it is Beirut so tiny. You got mountains, you got the Sea. We're surrounded and then there's so many factions that you have to deal with everybody.

I'm going tricky ham in this fit. That hell he'll if he give. Now happens that let us that but if it's a lasagna is this shit. Now where is the bread? Where do here is what hinges first thing that think at home as well as low for standards get to his death. Where is the whole where is the wealth. Syria both the easy and shield they needn't not know that we need his help...

BOURDAIN: Syrian Filipino rapper, Tino.

TINO: Monday is hip hop at radio Beirut. At radio Beirut it is like a really awesome place where there's live bands playing all week long.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We created a platform for emcees to try their skills in front of people without the prejudice, without the judgments and although we do judge but we don't make fun of them.

BOURDAIN: Lebanese free style legend Hussein, aka, AA, the preacher man. You were arrested?

HUSSEIN, LEBANESE FREE STYLE LEGEND, A.K.A. AA The Preacher Man: Yeah, yeah yeah. That's normal. That's not the first time it happened.

BOURDAIN: Where? What?

HUSSEIN: And basically I was profiled. I give there's an explosion, all the big dude with the beard who is bald.

BOURDAIN: Right.

HUSSEIN: As if they get it we're 100 percent sure.

BOURDAIN: These are beard related issues.

HUSSEIN: Yup.

TINO: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: Let's hear the hip hop?

HUSSEIN: That's the glue that binds us.

BOURDAIN: What is it about hip hop?

HUSSEIN: I see it like this. I mean a lot of people doing well and all because call them well and which is it's a traditional rhyming scheme where each is speak about their problems, about their beefs. It's in our core to be poetic. We are poetic.

TINO: I come from what the background where you have governments that are dictators and we can't really voice anything.

These politicians can't believe because they're getting lit on. So the slaughter on this moth is trying to keep the lit on. Fresh is makes this wheel get the boost that lit off and were robbed, were robbed, were robbed.

We're trying to find our own identity. We don't want to be like our ancestors always fighting each other. Like these Christian, he's Shia, I'm Syrian Sunni, that's nothing. You know, we don't even mention that when we're on stage.



[21:28:10]

BOURDAIN: Afternoon in Beirut in Haffa's  family, like many others across the city, prepares dinner.

UNIDENTIFED MALE: 

BOURDAIN: Extraordinary spread of food.

HAFFA : Yeah. All this food, you see, and my family is kind because he want to go to Burger Kings. He wants some chicken burger from Burger King.

BOURDAIN: Well, thank you so much for having me in your home.

HAFFA: This is sweet potato. We call it patata hara. Deep fried potato with red pepper, green chili, Morinda, garlic and lemon juice. And this is Kibbeh Nayyeh which is a raw meat, lamb, fresh mint, thin onion. Mix it all together. And this is as a main course. It's called Moussaka. Minced meat, baked over gin, green and red pepper and chick peas and tomato and tomato paste. Please help yourself.

BOURDAIN: Thank you. I was in Beirut in 2006 this neighborhood was hit very hard.

HAFFA: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: Were you here at that time?

HAFFA: Yeah. It was dust.

BOURDAIN: Why this neighborhood?

HAFFA: Because the people of this area 99 percent, they support Hezbollah.

UNIDENTIFED MALE: As Israel buries its dead from a surprise is via missile strike at the radical Shiite group celebrates a victory. The rhetorical both side is at a fever pitch right now.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It is the deadliest Hezbollah attack against the Israeli forces since the two sides went to war in 2006.

[21:30:03]

BOURDAIN: Hezbollah means the "Party of God". They are a Shia military political organization lavishly supported by Iran. The party is more powerful, more effective on the ground than the Lebanese Army. The United States officially designates them a terrorist organization.

In 1983, they did this, the U.S. embassy bombing. And this, the Marine barracks at Beirut's airport, 299 United States and French servicemen were killed.

HAFFA: All the people are Hezbollah.

Please put it down now.

BOURDAIN: They are dangerous. They are well funded. And whatever else they may be, they are not stupid.

HAFFA: In 2006, I have two sisters they lost their house . Hezbollah take care of them. Here everybody support Hezbollah, even the people who are not religious for one reason, because they feel protected by them.

BOURDAIN: My host's support for Hezbollah, typical of Dahiyeh neighborhood in South Beirut, is staunch.

HAFFA: Before Hezbollah, Lebanese before they were always scared of Israel. Now when you say, Israel, you say, ha, ha. We don't care.

BOURDAIN: In the early days Hezbollah used tactics that just about anyone would call a terrorism. When is it permissible morally to use a car bomb or using civilian targets?

HAFFA: For me?

BOURDAIN: For you?

HAFFA: I'm against killing. Against killing anybody, even Israel. This person who I'm going to kill, a car bomb or whatever, doesn't he has family.

BOURDAIN: What's the most important thing happening in the world today that needs to be resolved for things to be better?

HAFFA: ISIS.

BOURDAIN: ISIS is number one? HAFFA: Number one. They kill hundreds and thousands of Shiites. They are devils. They are against everything like everything on the earth they are against.

BOURDAIN: Recently Hezbollah has become heavily involved in the war in Syria, in defense of the Assad regime. Complicating matters and uncomfortably enough, they are probably the best organized, best- equipped, most serious obstacle to ISIS and al-Qaeda in the area.

HAFFA: Most of the villages in the East of Lebanon, they are Christian and they are Sunni.

BOURDAIN: Right.

HAFFA: If Hezbollah wasn't there, it was no more Christian in that area. This is the only reason they're gone. This is the only reason for just to protect my children and my wife.

BOURDAIN: 20 years, 30 years?

HAFFA: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: Will things be better?

HAFFA: I hope so. Of that 20 years and 30 years, I hope now, next year, things goes I hope. I hate war.



[21:37:31]

BOURDAIN: The last two times I've been here, there is just this never-ending building boom. Nobody seems to be moving in but the buildings are going up. JOUMANA HADDAD, POET & CULTURE EDITOR, AN NAHAR: Yeah. BOURDAIN: Who is buying these apartments? Who are they four? HADDAD: Two kinds of people, Lebanese, who are living abroad, or Arabs, especially from the Gulf Region. BOURDAIN: Right, for whom Beirut is a relatively liberal wonderland or permissiveness compared to Riyadh, for instance. HADDAD: Compared to Riyadh, yes. But, unfortunately, we cannot generalize this and say that Beirut is a place where sexual expression is encouraged. BOURDAIN: Her books are banned in many countries in the region. She is regularly threatened with rape, stoning and murder. She is Joumana Haddad, culture editor of Lebanon's biggest newspaper, "An Nahar." HADDAD: Yesterday, I had my first T.V. show about sexual freedom and you cannot imagine how many house doors have opened just because I dared say that girls are allowed in sexuality like boys. And we pretend -- we pretend to be a democracy. This is Gufta  BOURDAIN: Gufta ? HADDAD: Yes, with yogurt sauce and cranberries. BOURDAIN: That the fried. Stuffed grape, please? HADDAD: Yes. BOURDAIN: The fact that Lebanon and Beirut, in particular, works at all. If all of these religious groups have different interests, I mean, this is a fully functioning, more or less, by world standards. HADDAD: Fully functioning? BOURDAIN: Yeah, this is a... HADDAD: We don't have a president. It's been almost -- going to be a year now that we are without one. BOURDAIN: It's sort of awesome. HADDAD: Don't you think that the main reason behind you seeing this as a thrilling, exciting place to live in is that you're a visitor and not someone who actually lives here? BOURDAIN: Am I wrong to love this place? HADDAD: You're not wrong to love it. I love living on the tip of a volcano, but there has to be some point where I can breathe and relax. I don't want to seem like I'm only criticizing because I really also, as much as I hate this place, I love it as well. And I know that it's also very precious to have such a kind of freedom in a place in the Arab world like Beirut. I don't need to tell you about Islamic State. Even though they are not inside Beirut yet, we can feel the threat. [21:40:02] We can feel it every day. BOURDAIN: Should people come here? HADDAD: Yes, definitely. They should come. They will enjoy it as much as you have. I wouldn't advise them to stay more than a month, though.

MICHEL ELEFTERIADES: I often go to the Daniel events and I asked in that to call me your highness. I love that. That's magic. So I go there and I am dress like an emperor. I'm not today but -- so sometimes I dress like an emperor.

BOURDAIN: There have been two attempts on your life I guess?

ELEFTERIADES: Yes.

BOURDAIN: That you're aware of.

ELEFTERIADES: Yes, two attempts. In Arabic we say that . It means that the third one succeeds. So I don't know when the third one will be.

BOURDAIN: You're young militant and an activist, a labor organizer? You have been arrested in your life?

ELEFTERIADES: Yes, many times. When I was 14 years old for example I became a communist in the Phrygian that was under control of the extreme right wing militia. I ended up in a torture room that I declare to be it just behind you.

BOURDAIN: Later after joining and then leaving the Lebanese army, Michel Elefteriades formed the NUR, an armed of revolutionary group.

And yet here you are your life now is music and culture?

ELEFTERIADES: I think that I was made to be a musician but when war happened in Lebanon I took a gun. I understood that I cannot face someone who's attacking my house with the guitar.

BOURDAIN: In 2003, by now a music producer, entrepreneur, politician, artist, author and film maker, he founded the Beirut Musical in a bullet popped theater empty since the civil war. This is his kingdom.

ELEFTERIADES: Some people come because it's trendy. They come with the sexy ladies. Some come because they like to discover new things. We have per night up to 15 acts, each act coming from a different culture.

BOURDAIN: Who needs culture?

ELEFTERIADES: I think that culture can save the world. ISIS towards these criminals who are not very far from Lebanon, someone who had interesting books, someone to listen to beautiful music cannot become an animal again.

BOURDAIN: If you were the emperor of the world, hypothetically.

ELEFTERIADES: Hopefully.

BOURDAIN: Hopefully, what would Beirut be like in 10 years?

ELEFTERIADES: Best case scenario it goes back to before the creation of separate when all communities were living very well. The Jewish would be back. We are -- the Jewish neighborhood here. I think that we have all to be united to fight this monster, ISIS. Once that the monster is defeated you can start arguing again about other things.



[21:48:27]

BOURDAIN: Hello.

ROAN: Hello.

BOURDAIN: How you doing? I'm Tony.

ROAN: I'm Roan , nice to meet you.

BOURDAIN: This feels very formal.

ROAN: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: But it's not so please relax.

ROAN: I am relaxed. Can I get my beer?

BOURDAIN: By all means, yes please.

ROAN: Lots of people come here. They are mostly musicians and artist people. Lots of jamming happens here and it's like we're a family hanging out.

BOURDAIN: This cafe is a typical Beirut establishment but the clients tell from Lebanon, from Syria and any number of other countries. The owners are both Lebanese and Syrian and acutely aware of the tricky political realities with which they must live. They were concerned about us filming here and wanted us to understand

clearly that the cafe has no political affiliation and that the opinions of this young lady, Roan are not that of the cafe or necessarily even the clientele.

You were born and breed in Syria?

ROAN: I was -- yes. I was born and brought up in Syria, Damascus. One night, 3:00 a.m. the army entered our house and I found them in my bedroom looking for the free Syrian army. My dad knew he couldn't protect us because he was old. Three hours later we decided to leave, so we came to Beirut.

BOURDAIN: Oh, thank you.

ROAN: We always eat here. Grape leaves is my favorite.

BOURDAIN: I saw you went for that first.

ROAN: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: It's delicious.

ROAN: Yeah it is. We come here a lot and we talk a lot about Syria.

[21:50:01] We talk about our visa issues most of the time. Actually now I have four months left and I really have no idea what am I going to do?

BOURDAIN: What do you think? Will they renew your visa?

ROAN: So far, I don't think so.

BOURDAIN: Do they arrest you? Do they take you to the border or they take you over the other side? What -- well, does that...

ROAN: They send you back to Syria.

BOURDAIN: What happens if you go back to Syria?

ROAN: Most probably die on the way or some people get arrested or be taken into the army.

BOURDAIN: How different is Damascus from Beirut?

ROAN: Oh, it's really, really different. In Damascus I was always afraid of the government. Some people died because they cursed the president. I left Syria and I found hope here and I screamed in the streets, cursing all politicians and everything. It's all right. Nobody's going to come and arrest you. I really love this place, with all my heart.

BOURDAIN: Is all of the chaos and the violence worth it for change, is that worth dying for? I mean, things were, there was order when you grew up. There was order.

ROAN: Yes.

BOURDAIN: No freedom, but order. Would you go back to that?

ROAN: I don't think that there is anything worthy in the world of a human blood. There is nothing more important than human being.

BOURDAIN: You'd never be able to yell out loud. You've never be able to do the things you're doing now. You'd go back.

ROAN: I was alive.

BOURDAIN: You were alive.

ROAN: Lot of people were alive too.



[21:55:52]

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One day after a shocking daylight bombing in Lebanon, they're seeing wide spread anger and finger pointing.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This blast has set off a tide of civil unrest in Lebanon.

BOURDAIN: Ramsey, how you been?

SHORT: I've been all right. I've been well.

BOURDAIN: We are better for capitalist imperialist pig dogs like Ramsey and myself to spend the last evening in Beirut than Abu Ely.

SHORT: It was opened by a guy called Naya. He is a atheist member of the Lebanese, communist party.

BOURDAIN: A communist themed bar located in a housing block.

What is this?

SHORT: You know what? I'm not sure. It's been put in front of us.

BOURDAIN: Well, we should probably drink it and figure it out.

SHORT: Yeah, let's do it. Why not?

BOURDAIN: Vodka.

SHORT: Vodka.

BOURDAIN: You know, actually I had somebody who lives here tell me, oh yeah, place is great. Just don't stay here longer than a month.

SHORT: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: And I was like, what? Oh, you know, you're trying to kill us now. And who is this man? He's trying to hurt us. SHORT: Cheers.

BOURDAIN: After more than a few indigenous beverages, oh, Raqqa . So now we're talking. Cheers.

SHORT: Cheers.

BOURDAIN: Enter Ernesto.

ERNESTO: Hey, hey, Tony. Hey, I got something for you.

BOURDAIN: Oh, yeah?

ERNESTO: It's a Cuban cigar.

BOURDAIN: And the words of Vladimir Ilyich Lenin, let's get the party started, or is that Rick James?

SHORT: Ernesto is the son of the owner of this bar.

BOURDAIN: I know.

ERNESTO: This is my mom and she made some shanklish here.

BOURDAIN: Oh.

SHORT: Shanklish is the cheese.

ERNESTO: It's kind of rotten cheese.

BOURDAIN: There we go.

SHORT: Cheers.

ERNESTO: I called my dad.

BOURDAIN: Yeah.

ERNESTO: I told him there's a guy called Tony, CNN. He said "I don't watch CNN" and then I told him but he's a cool guy. He wants to make the best food for you.

SHORT: This is some of the best in Beirut.

BOURDAIN: Is it a lamb?

ERNESTO: And spices.

BOURDAIN: Oh, man, that's good. Hypothetical question, ISIS are coming now, are we picking up a gun or not?

SHORT: I pick a gun.

ERNESTO: Yeah, we will fight these people.

BOURDAIN: We'll done like this. ERNESTO: No, we have to have it.

BOURDAIN: Zip, stuff, stock.

ERNESTO: Yeah, make stuff.

BOURDAIN: I seem to remember mom at one point whipping out some kind of automatic weapon.

All right, here you go, big guy.

RAMSEY: I will take this up in arms and I will fight.

ERNESTO: Let me tell you how...

SHORT: I will. I will.

BOURDAIN: And in the mirror of all descended from the ceiling, Bootsy Collins came over the sound system and the rest is a fog.

SHORT: Let's first have a cheers.

ERNESTO: .

BOURDAIN: This is probably -- this is the worst neighbor problems in the world. It's amazing that it persists.

ERNESTO: You know what, I've been around in that same place. This place works fine.

BOURDAIN: I think so, too.

SHORT: Cheers to Tony, man.

BOURDAIN: Beirut, everybody should come here. Everyone should see how complicated, how deeply troubled and yet at the same time beautiful and awesome the world can be.

Everyone should experience even as the clouds gather what's at stake, what could be lost, what's still here, and never let that hope go.

Beirut, there is no place like it.

[22:00:10]












Charleston. Aired 9-10p ET

Aired November 15, 2015 - 21:00   ET






[21:00:25]

ANTHONY BOURDAIN, CNN HOST: The south is not a monolith. There are pockets of weirdness, awesomeness, and then there's Charleston, where for some time now important things have been happening with food. A lot of them having to do with these guys.

What are we drinking? There are beer we've got harder stuff? What's going on?

SEAN BROCK, EXECUTIVE CHEF, HUSK RESTAURANT: I usually go with a Budweiser and a Jagermeister.

BOURDAIN: Budweiser and Jagermeister. So any notion of going local right out the window.

BROCK: Two Jagers.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Now I know. I know.

BOURDAIN: Yeah, two Jagers. Cheers.

BROCK: Cheers. The first one's never good. The first one is never good. But it gets easier after the first one.

BOURDAIN: So, look, this is not my first time to Charleston as you know. I did do a show here before, and I'm still thinking in about it. Apparently I really stop the first time I came here, because I made a number of errors. Apparently, none more egregious than going out or like doing oyster roast and drinking champagne.

BROCK: I never heard of such a thing. Well, champagne and beers is OK with the oysters.

BOURDAIN: Right. So you ask what -- it must have been a place off.

BROCK: And there so many got -- yet confused somewhere.

BOURDAIN: Yeah, anyway, I got it wrong. This time I'm getting it right which is why I've come to you.

You can be forgiven for underestimating Sean Brock first time you meet him. I know I did. I saw a scruffy looking dude in a trucker cap who always seem to have a bottle of really good bourbon on hand.

BROCK: Start so well in 1991, 18 years old. This is the end of great whiskey. It didn't come in this bottle. This is my travel bottle, because it's plastic, you see, so it don't breaks when you get rowdy.

BOURDAIN: It took me a little time to discover the ferocious intellect, the inquiring nature, the uniquely focus and purposeful talent to the man, without a doubt one of America's most important chefs. A guy who's redefining what -- not just southern cooking is, was, and can be, but American cooking as a whole.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One, two, three!

BOURDAIN: We're going to talk a lot about this over the next week about the notions of universal awesomeness. Is the waffle house universally awesome?

BROCK: We have one choice for late-night eating and it's the waffle house. And they create this environment where no matter how blitzed you are or how normal you are, you are welcomed and treated equally with an experience. It's not just like, you know, eating a plate of food.

BOURDAIN: You're talking about all, the magical spiritual place.

BROCK: It's beyond a magical, spiritual place.

BOURDAIN: It is indeed marvelous. An irony free zone where everything is beautiful and nothing hurts for everybody regardless of race, creed, color, or degree of inebriation is welcomed.

[2:05:11] It's warm yellow glow, a beacon of hope and salvation inviting the hungry, the lost, the seriously hammered all across the south to come inside, a place of safety and nourishment. It never closes. It is always, always faithful, always there for you.

BROCK: When I was a kid, I was obsessed with this place because I wanted to be a chef. And this is the only place that I'd ever been to right, I actually watched people cook. Well this was actions to me. That would seem these people cooking at a pace and cooking for people who were completely out of control, but still providing hospitality. It was one of the things that really helped me fall in love with cooking.

BOURDAIN: Waffle house.

BROCK: Yes and cook, cook, cook, cook.

BOURDAIN: I never really know about this. I'm unbelievably in spite of my world travels, new to the wonders of the waffle house and unfamiliar with its ways. The terminology, for instance is new to me.

Now, I'm looking at my hash brown and I am already confused and enticed.

BROCK: Anything. BOURDAIN: This, sausage gravy.

BROCK: You can't go all in, if you want everything.

BOURDAIN: I know I need to make a choice.

BROCK: So there's a balance. And then when you find your balance, you memorize it.

BOURDAIN: Help me.

BROCK: I go scattered covered smothered chunks.

BOURDAIN: Which means I gather scattered on the griddle, heaped with brown onions, cheese, and chunks of hickory smoked ham.

BROCK: That's my style like, I've been doing that since day one. And I didn't even know what that means.

BOURDAIN: You know what I know, I don't want waffles at the waffle house.

BROCK: Bullshit men, you have to have...

BOURDAIN: Waffles?

BROCK: Ah OK. You have to call in waffle. Now so what I advice as...

BOURDAIN: All right.

BROCK: ...as a chef is it, a tasting menu experience where you can sit down and really experience what this place does. And you start out first thing you have, pecan waffle.

BOURDAIN: Really?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All right, gentlemen.

BROCK: Oh the pecan waffles. Is crush it put . I wanted it to be swimming in syrup and hydrogenase vegetable oil.

BOURDAIN: Oh that's good. That's good.

BROCK: See, you don't come here expecting the French Laundry. You come here expecting something amazing.

BOURDAIN: This is better than the French Laundry man.

BROCK: And then second course. Patty melt, split. Oh.

BOURDAIN: Patty melt.

BROCK: Patty melt.

BOURDAIN: Oh. BROCK: Come on. That's not insanely delicious.

BOURDAIN: Oh god damn.

BROCK: Not insanely delicious.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No meal is complete without a sunny side up egg.

BOURDAIN: Oh, yeah.

BROCK: And then a green salad with some thousand island dressing would be amazing. Would you rather have thin-cut pork chops or T- bone?

BOURDAIN: I would like both.

BROCK: Heinz 57 is the best, man. One or more complex sauces in the American repertoire.

BOURDAIN: Really?

BROCK: Do you want to talk shit about it. This is sauce work. Trust me, this is going to change your life.

BOURDAIN: Now that's wrong, man. Come on.

BROCK: Mmm. So is a brilliant human being got had a recipe, it was amazing and I think he got a bad rap.

BOURDAIN: Seems like you're talking about Ronald McDonald. He had a good idea. You know, no, you're wrong. I'm sorry. Here's where we part ways, my friend. Here's my sauce.

After a few bites of waffle, a burger, a hunk of generic T-bone and some hash browns, one feels drawn right to the center of what makes our country great. In America, yeah, moment, it dries me to climber up on the counter and start reciting Walt Whitman, the stars spangled banner, who say can you see, and, you know, what I doubt I'd be the first.

Oh my god.

BROCK: Give me a break.

BOURDAIN: The umami have it.

BROCK: Yes, yeah, give me a break.

BOURDAIN: You know what umami means in Japanese? Actually, the literal transition of the umami.

BROCK: Orgasm?

BOURDAIN: No. Umami means in Japanese, literally it means, "I will smock your, divide you in half."

[21:10:07] That burger.

BROCK: You and you buy some pork chop.



BOURDAIN: Everybody needs a place. A community, something larger than one's self to care about to be part of. A place to hide when times get tough, where you're accepted for who you are, where the rhythms of a summer afternoon, the crack of a bat, the roar of the crowd, our music.

Behold the mighty Charleston RiverDogs, a minor league feeder team for the New York Yankees. Meet one of the owners of the Charleston RiverDogs, Charleston resident, Bill Murray.

BILL MURRAY, CHARLESTON RIVERDOGS CO-OWNER: He said I had too many beers to drive. I'm going to take shotgun.

UNKNOWN MALE: We're going to see how fast he can go all the way around the outfield.

BOURDAIN: Today, the RiverDogs are facing the evil forces of the dreaded Savannah Sand Gnats.

MURRAY: That's going to score a run and that's going to leave a mark. We got the whole lead.

BOURDAIN: Bad day for the Sand Gnats.

MURRAY: You're hated, you're hated.

BOURDAIN: We will crush you like that, well, Sand Gnat.

MURRAY: Has Sand Gnat has almost no backbone, almost no skeletal structure. They fold.

BOURDAIN: As difficult as it might have been to forego the joys of the bacon-wrapped foot long corn dog known as the pig on a stick, we knew we'd be coming here.

[21:15:02] Husk, Sean's restaurant in downtown Charleston, one of two that have helped make the city a fine dining destination.

So I want to know, southern living. It's very different up there and down here. It's a big transition, easy for you, or not?

MURRAY: It's easy. You know, I do driving was the real transition because I drive, like, in New York person and when you come here, driving like New York, you know. It takes you a while to recover but, you know, I'm right on the edge here, like telling people that this is a really nice place to come and really I don't want anyone else to come. I like it the way it is. There's a lot of insects. It's really, really hot in the summer. And the traffic is worse than it ever was.

BOURDAIN: Husk directly addresses southern culinary traditions using the best of modern techniques, but always, always respecting the originals and who made them. It's a pressing matter to redefine southern food. If I were a southerner, I would, I would make it a personal mission because it was distorted for so long. But as a northerner, why should northerners care?

BROCK: Well, I think if you look at the history of food in America. Well, there's no denying that southern food was the first. There true cuisine that had this foundation and that's important to preserve and yeah, you know, to me both and it goes back to the idea. It should be, you should be cooking and preserving and celebrating the food of your grandmother.

MURRAY: People take a real pride in their ability to cook my aunt's recipe, my grandma's recipe. And this is how we made these. And the standard of food here is so high that when I go around any place, I just go.

BOURDAIN: Country ham, bread and butter pickles, and, of course, Sean being Sean, there will be burden.

BROCK: I was like to start a meal with pickles and ham. I try not to geek out too much, but this is a very special breed of pig that came over here in the 1500s. It's called Ossabaw. The Spaniards brought it. It has a very particular flavor. This one's aged three years.

BOURDAIN: That's ridiculously good. That's the best American ham I've ever had.

BOCK: No, thank you.

BOURDAIN: By the way, that was unbelievable.

BROCK: These two things together, is my two favorite things in the whole entire world. Spits in well in whiskey and old country ham. So this is an old dish that I dug up in one of those old books that I study. It's an old-fashioned oyster pie. So just grab your spoon and just dig all the way down. The oysters are in the bottom.

BOURDAIN: How old is this recipe?

BROCK: It was well-documented in the 19th century, pre-civil war.

BOURDAIN: It's good.

MURRAY: Is it?

BOURDAIN: Yes.

BROCK: So shrimp and grits is the dish of Charleston. I mean, it really is. It's the dish I crave when I leave Charleston and come back. This version is one of the older ones or we actually make hominy first by mixilizing  the corn. So you'll taste a little, the grits are a little bit different.

BOURDAIN: Oh, yes. That's really great looking.

BROCK: Then we make a brown gravy which is the most classic way and on top, crispy pig ears.

BOURDAIN: You got grannies coming in saying I haven't tasted this since I was a little kid?

BROCK: Yeah, exactly, man.

BOURDAIN: Wow, it's good.

BROCK: We were trying to replicate the emotion of the southern food provides you in a time where good ingredients weren't available. So we've made up for tasteless ingredients by frying them or dumping butter on them.

BOURDAIN: Right.

BROCK: Now we don't have to.

MURRAY: Wow. What's going on here? This is an onslaught of awesomeness here.

BROCK: We didn't order this. So it happens on so pit beans into the cooking over the fire all day.

[21:20:00] These are the red peas that came grills Africa. This is the original Carolina gold rice. Hand harvested with any grilled whiting which is like nobody eats in Charleston in restaurants as everybody eats in home with some spring vegetables it in. And the suckling pig at the same breed Ossabaw as we had earlier with the ham, mixed with them on mule foot, cooked on a spit some creamed corn and corn bread.

BOURDAIN: Wow, well this is going to be my first mule foot.

BROCK: This is like my favorite way to eat, you know, just family- style, pass stuff around.

BOURDAIN: Yeah. The rice is amazing.

BROCK: It's amazing.

BOURDAIN: Yep. You see Bubba Gump, do you get angry?

BROCK: I am very angry.

BOURDAIN: For me, it's Chili's, because you see Chili's along the Mexican border. Like what the ? I said we have a shortage of Mexicans in this money, does it get shortage of good food? You're eating the chili's? I really want to like pull up the car, get a tire iron, and walk in and just straighten some people out.

BROCK: Clean house. Road House style.

BOURDAIN: Road House. Vastly under rated film.

MURRAY: You guys are both into Road House? BOURDAIN: Such a great film. So easy, what else do we need to know? You can deconstruct this film forever. The more you watch it, the more mysteries unfold.

MURRAY: I've never seen anyone enjoy Road House more than I do.

BROCK: What?

MURRAY: My friend's wife, Kelly Lynch, plays the doctor that stitches up Patrick Swayze in the movie. She's the romantic interest, right? The unattainable...

BOURDAIN: Yes.

MURRAY: ... romantic interest. And I have for the last, I don't know, probably about 25 years, called his home in the middle of the night and said, "You don't know me, but your wife's getting slammed up against the wall by Patrick Swayze. She's not putting up much of a fight." And then hang up.

BOURDAIN: It is in many ways a perfect film.

BROCK: It's a whiskey talking.



[21:26:24]

BOURDAIN: What is down home southern cooking? Where did it come from? Who's responsible? Well, it's always useful when asking those kinds of questions wherever you are to ask, first, who did the cooking back then in the beginning? Where did they come from?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When you meet people here, you know that you're seeing a direct descendant of a slave that was here after the slaves were freed.

BOURDAIN: Ashley Green  grew up on Mosquito Beach on James Island in Charleston. Her mother owns the property which has been in her family for generations. Fact of the matter is, in the old south back when the dishes, flavors, and ingredients of southern cooking, which to say American cooking as opposed to European, chances are that food was grown, gathered, produced and prepared by African slaves.

Chef BJ Dennis has made it a personal mission to celebrate and protect the culinary traditions his ancestors passed down to him.

BJ DENNIS, CHEF: Well, this some local blue crab, just fresh and seasoned. This is a play on some garlic crabs, well this is shrimp butter instead of the garlic butter. And then you have that play, you know, the french influence into the cuisine right here.

BOURDAIN: The flavors and textures and food ways of West Africa are all over southern cooking. And there are few better places to see how short the line between there and here than Gullah culture. I'm really enjoying this. I got to tell you. BROCK: This is so delicious.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, my god.

BOURDAIN: How African is traditional Gullah cooking?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, I think what happens is you change the location of the people but you did not change who the people were. You did not change the information that they came with, with their traditions.

BROCK: Now, if you look at the history of American food, now, you'll quickly see that this is one of the first true cuisines of America.

BOURDAIN: Oh, what's that? What is this? This looks good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  West Africa.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All right.













Turkey. Aired 9-10p ET

Aired November 12, 2015 - 21:00   ET




[21:00:00]

BOURDAIN: Modern Turkey was founded in 1923 on the principles of secular, democratic statehood after centuries of empire.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It has been the most turbulent year in a decade of Turkey's political history.

BOURDAIN: Turkey has set a new course. One that many hoped would carry it into the European Union.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's clearly a significant portion of the Turkish population that's not happy with the policies of the democratically elected government.

BOURDAIN: But things have changed. They are changing.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You get clashes erupting, demonstrators throwing rocks.

BOURDAIN: And what happens next has implications far beyond Turkey.

It has been a turbulent year for Turkey. And I arrived in Istanbul at the moment of a critical election. The question on everyone's mind is whether the current president and his ruling party will win a large enough majority to change the constitution, potentially allowing him to stay in power indefinitely. These have been good times for some. Particularly in the construction and development business. And fearful ones for others. They are particularly concerned about what happens next, for instance, in the Kurdish parts of town.

AMBER LYON, FORMER CNN REPORTER: Our polls are opening. Turkey's voters choose a new parliament which could lead to big changes in the country's political system.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The ruling justice and development party expected to take most of the seats.

LYON: But how much power the president actually has will be determined by the success or failure of the Kurdish party.

BOURDAIN: The HDP, originally a Kurdish political party, has sought to unite the disparate voices calling for change in response to 13 years of what has essentially been one-party rule by the AKP. So history, whatever it might be, is about to happen.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just in the past hour, polls have closed in the country's parliamentary elections.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Voters in Turkey have just shaken up the country's political landscape in a major way. They said no to placing Recep Tayyip Erdogan in push for more power over the constitution.

BOURDAIN: The ruling AKP Party did not win the majority its president had hoped for. In fact, they lost seats in parliament and for the first time, the pro-Kurdish party gained enough votes to earn a real voice in the government.

[21:05:55] ESRA YALCINALP: We are at the very tip of Istanbul next to the Black Sea, so the ships that are going by here, they're basically going to Russia.

BOURDAIN: I meet an old friend, Esra, for my first meal back in the country.

YALCINALP: I know you like your fish with the head and tail.

BOURDAIN: I do. This is perfect.

YALCINALP: I ordered some raki.

BOURDAIN: That makes me so happy.

YALCINALP: Yes, which is our national drink. It's aniseed and...

BOURDAIN: I am familiar with this, all too familiar. Cheers.

YALCINALP: Welcome back.

BOURDAIN: So since I last saw you, which was in 2000...

YALCINALP: Nine.

BOURDAIN: 2009. Wow, a long time ago. Istanbul looks a little different than the last time I was here. It looks a little more like every other city.

YALCINALP: Yeah. Well, construction.

BOURDAIN: There seems to be a lot of that going on.

YALCINALP: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Your president likes to build stuff today. He like the pour concrete.

YALCINALP: He keeps the economy going. Turkey's so much politicized since the last time you came. Like after 2011, the daily life issues like how many children you should have, advising women not to laugh out loud in public, things like these were actually suggested by the government. BOURDAIN: Right. Do you think this is coming from genuine ideological religious place or is this some political calculation?

YALCINALP: I think it's a genuine.

BOURDAIN: You're telling me that current leadership is, in his heart, is genuinely opposed to alcohol, women laughing in public?

YALCINALP: Maybe I don't feel comfortable answering that question.

BOURDAIN: Okay.

Turkey's most famous politician, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, he is the power and has been the power in one form or another for more than a decade. He's the face of Turkey's ruling justice and development party, the AKP.

Erdogan has in recent years made Islamist politics mainstream and while remaining very, very popular in this extremely polarized nation, cracked down hard on media, political opposition, free speech, and, of course, demonstrations.

In 2013, the almost revolution in Turkey happened. A protest to contest the proposed demolition of Istanbul's Gezi Park resulted in a brutal crackdown by the police. In response, ordinary Turks unconnected by any particular ideology poured into the streets. With the whole world watching on social media, they, too, were met with force.

In the end, Erdogan remained firmly in control and there were repercussions for many who had supported the protests. From that point on, media, social media, even open discussion of issues or events became treated as hostile acts by foreign enemies.

Autocrats in general are not famous for their sense of humor so it's no surprise that comedians in Turkey like Deniz and her fiance, Khan  walk a perilous lie.

.

BOURDAIN: Are these good times to be a comedian in Turkey?

KHAN: It's definitely one of the best times because our former prime minister, support for a living.

[21:10:03] DENIZ: We don't use the names. We just call him the greatness, you know.

.

KHAN: I guess they are running the finals.

BOURDAIN: The finals.

KHAN: Yes. BOURDAIN: All weight classes. But it's basically Greco-Roman

wrestling. Just you greased up. As I understand you can't choke with two hands, only one.

KHAN: Yeah.

DENIZ: Because you can just slip your hand.

BOURDAIN: Right down into some greasy ass crack.

DENIZ: And grab  looks that's fine.

BOURDAIN: That's OK.

Tell me something. I want to know what are the rules of the game.

Turkish oil wrestling. A big freaking salad covered with oiled men in leather pants giving each other spirited and prolonged reach-arounds. Oh, geez. Can we get rights to the Barry White greatest hits record or Diana Ross "Love Hangover" or is that too obvious?

I like to be respectful of ancient tradition, but I mean the jokes write themselves. What, there's, like, ropes inside or handles? Where do I get a pair of those pants? Those are some super freaky pants.

DENIZ: And do you see the golden belts? Look good.

BOURDAIN: Well look, it's got to be because the pants are awesome. Imagine what the belt looks like.



BOURDAIN: Does he stop yelling at some point?



KHAN: The announcer is called .

BOURDAIN: Yeah.

KHAN: And in slang,  means person who talks too much.



KHAN: It's too loud.



KHAN: It's time for political end. Lots changed since your last visit.

BOURDAIN: Obviously, the mood has changed a lot which is weird because everything seemed to be going so well. Things seemed to be getting more tolerant.

KHAN: Tolerance level is so low these days.

BOURDAIN: Right.

KHAN: People taking sides, don't like the other one. These people don't like our kind.

BOURDAIN: So what happens if someone doesn't like your joke? Somebody in a powerful position does not like your comedy. What happens?

DENIZ: Depending on the degree how much he doesn't like you, how much he's offended.

BOURDAIN: Let's say he's really offended.

DENIZ: You go to jail. Or being, you know, terrorist or...

BOURDAIN: Aiding and abetting the enemies of the state.

DENIZ: Yes. Enemy of the state. Being enemy of the state is most common thing you can do right now in Turkey.



DENIZ: They're asking for more oil.

BOURDAIN: More oil.





[21:17:01] BOURDAIN: Building boom or building bubble. Architect and city planner Murat Germen has been capturing Istanbul's construction boom with his camera. He employs a unique method of compressing panoramas to create a striking reimagining of cityscapes reflecting perhaps more of the reality than a straight photo could.

MURAT GERMEN, CITY PLANNER: I've been following what's happening in Istanbul because it's my hometown, and what's happening is the new government is basing the supposedly booming economy totally on construction. So what they did is they started to build high-rise housing, shopping malls, roads, and all that, but not necessarily buildings that are related to the making of culture. So all this construction is related to consumption.

BOURDAIN: Well, are these spaces needed? At whatever income level, will somebody be living in these buildings?

GERMEN: That's a very good question. I'm asking the same question.

BOURDAIN: Yeah. First things first.

GERMEN: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: We'll save the world later. GERMEN: This is the pita by the way and it's like the Turkish version

of pizza, let's say.

BOURDAIN: Pita has some similarities. I mean, there's cheese in it. Dough. But it's more like a calzone maybe. I don't know. It's an efficient delivery vehicle for this case ground meat, cheese, and onions a not so little torpedo straight from I was going to say flavor town, but no, that would be wrong. I want to see what you do with this. I want to see how you eat this. What do you do with that -- you dip in the egg? Pour it in?

GERMEN: Yeah, yeah pour yeah exactly.

BOURDAIN: Mm. This is...

GERMEN: Cholesterol bomb we call it.

BOURDAIN: There's a remarkable lack of sentimentality about really one of the most uniquely glorious looking spaces anywhere. Why don't they care?

GERMEN: I agree. There's a lack of sentimentality and there's also a lack of vision, I believe, hometown vision. We have very short-term visions. Mostly based on money making.

BOURDAIN: When people look at the work you do see and do you stop them, what do you want them to see?

GERMEN: First of all, I really value the sustainability of our particular culture. I want my work to show, hey look, this is what we had. I think we are already losing it, so why don't we stop here and maybe consider doing something else?

[21:20:31] BOURDAIN:  Pazara, long home to tradesmen, Greeks, Jews, and Armenians. Groups whose populations are these days a tiny fraction of what they once were. This neighborhood like many in Istanbul is slated for redevelopment in the name of urban renewal.

Wow. Look at that. It's a lot of food.

Cesar and his family have been running a restaurant here for nearly 20 years.

CESAR: The way that we make the food, it's our own language. That's the whole idea about it.

BOURDAIN: So your family is Armenian?

CESAR: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Is the food Armenian?

CESAR: This is my mom's food whatever we eat at home.

BOURDAIN: Authentic esnafs or tradesmen's restaurants are getting harder and harder to find. Most are family-owned businesses, the kind of place where you can get a classic home-style meal of traditional dishes.

You're clearly romantic. Do you think there is a place in modern Istanbul for romantics or will they slowly be crashed by modernity?

CESAR: Almost all the protesters they were . They were romantics. They keep those people. They use real guns, but they will still continue to protest, nothing else.

BOURDAIN: So what's the future of Armenians in Turkey? Will it be more Armenians in Istanbul in 20 years or fewer?

CESAR: Of course, it will be less.

BOURDAIN: Less?

CESAR: Yes.

BOURDAIN: This turn towards a more conservative, more Islamist, is this a political calculation or do you think this is generally genuinely how people feel now?

CESAR: It's the way that people feel now. Because of the way that our president, the way that he talks, it's not only political issue, it's the reality itself.

I don't know what he has in mind, our president, but somehow he let people fight freedom, you know, hate. What I believe that hate will be, you know, it will make an end soon. That's what I'm afraid of. That's why I'm telling you that young generation, Armenians, they will definitely leave this country.

BOURDAIN: Wow. I hope you're wrong. I like to be -- I mean, I'm not really an optimistic person, but I hope you're wrong about Istanbul because it's an amazing place.

CESAR: I hope you will be the one who's right.



[21:27:05] EZAN, CAB DRIVER: Hold on. Give me help and not crash my car. Not today, maybe tomorrow. I have to pass this bus, if I don't pass this bus...

BOURDAIN: It is a long-held belief that if you want to know the real deal, what's really good about a town...

EZAN: What a life.

BOURDAIN: ...if you want to know where to find the good stuff, you ask a cab driver.



EZAN: I don't know wrong way, right way. Life is life. What is what? Take it easy.

BOURDAIN: I don't know if that's true. Not in my town, anyway. But in Istanbul, I know a cab driver, my old friend, Ezan .

Hello, my friend. Good to see you.

EZAN: Oh, after all those years to meet you again.

BOURDAIN: What a coincidence.

EZAN: Those are nice. I love that.

BOURDAIN: So how are things in Istanbul? It looks very different. They're building stuff everywhere.

EZAN: I don't know what happened, but I look up hotel, I look up shopping center open, more restaurant open, more disco open.

BOURDAIN: More discos?

EZAN: More disco.

BOURDAIN: So I thought this is a conservative government.

EZAN: Government conservative, but people, and they have to shake, they have to drink. Life is too short.



EZAN: Most people ask me, did you make an accident? And I say, yes, I killed two people, three people, hospital and then I pass cemetery. I said this is  section. They are scared. Really?

How can you ask the taxi driver, did you make any accident?

BOURDAIN: Right.

EZAN: Again, we cross the Galata Bridge. I love here. Look at this city here, Santa Sofia there, Topkapi Palace there, new malls for the Armenian, Golden Horn. I love this city, yahoo. Come on, everybody. Istan has got crazy. Taxi driver is nice job. I love this job because you meet every time new people.

BOURDAIN: Right.

EZAN: And on the way, you never get upset.

BOURDAIN: Right.



EZAN: I wish I dance, but I dance belly dance.

[21:30:17] What's in there? Come on. Everybody say this is not normal and I study about Ottoman, how to read, learn in Ottoman languages. When you ask why Ezan want to learn this, because I want to read history, original.

BOURDAIN: Probably not while driving though. EZAN: Yeah, yeah, not driving but the traffic already stopped a lot. If you -- I talk too much and you boring, and I go, take another taxi because I talk too much.



EZAN: This is my home area.

BOURDAIN: Oh, yeah, you live in this neighborhood?

EZAN: Yeah. We call this area Lokanta.

BOURDAIN: So this is a local favorite of yours, this restaurant?

EZAN: This restaurant I know since 30 years.

BOURDAIN: So it's cow foot, tripes.

EZAN: Tripes.

BOURDAIN: Very nice. That looks good. Man, this is just delicious.

Are the young people more conservative or less conservative?

EZAN: My daughter, Mary, religious person and she has the scarf. Another daughter, Yank  and 18 years old, short and moderate. They walk together. One is scarf, one is not.

BOURDAIN: Right.

EZAN: Maybe one day you invite me to America and I will be making...

BOURDAIN: Dance.

EZAN: Belly dance on the American main road .

BOURDAIN: Probably you get arrested for that.



[21:36:15] GUNDUZ VASSAF: The voice of Istanbul. I've had at least 30 names on your own to Istanbul.

Now they say I'm between the east and the west, an identity crises. I know there's enough for this nonsense. Take the labels off and just look at me.

You won't need a guidebook. Like all cities, I have my own sense of time. I'm a labyrinth of layers that only makes sense without a compass.

If you're hesitant, not sure which way to go as you walk about, follow one of my cats. They will lead you to places, introduce you to people, point out secrets they keep even from me. They, more than anyone, are the longest continuing residents of the city A challenge to those who see their future in my past, I'm an obstacle for those who see only the future. I see change with the patience of centuries. Look at my silhouette from the bridge on the Golden Horn. Time has not passed me by. It has protected me. I ask of you the same.

BOURDAIN: An hour ferry ride and a world away are the Prince's Islands in the Sea of Marmara. Gunduz Vassaf and his friend, Serra Yilmaz have invited me for lunch.

Actor? Translator?

SERRA YILMAZ: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: Philosopher? Poet? Are these good times to be a poet in Turkey?

VASSAF: It is, actually, because it's a way to bring down the noise in a way because so much words are exchanged especially in heated political discussions.

BOURDAIN: I have become very used to and fond of this drink, by the way. Maybe too used to it and too fond of it.

VASSAF: I used to call it lime's milk. In a famous Turkish poet it is known for saying I wish I could be a fish in a bottle of liquor.

BOURDAIN: Serra prepares a traditional spread of meze. Turkish meze are extremely tasty, very diverse assortment of dishes originating at every corner of the former Ottoman Empire.

The Ottomans like to eat and entertain and they employed armies of cooks to dazzle them with ever-changing menus, variety being key. Circassian chicken, faba beans, rice with mussels, eggplant, stuffed grape leaves, poached eggs with yogurt, all classic and all delicious.

YILMAZ: What shall I give you? A few of everything?

BOURDAIN: Yes, please.

[21:40:15] YILMAZ: I'll put some or maybe I could give you some chicken already.

BOURDAIN: Make room for that I think. Here we go. Wow. It's really pretty. Am I getting a distorted picture of Turkey by spending all of my time in Istanbul? It's very different than the rest of the country. How different?

YILMAZ: But I think in Istanbul, you have all the different parts of Turkey also.

BOURDAIN: What does it mean to be Turkish? What do you think?

VASSAF: Serra, are you Turkish?

YILMAZ: Yes, but it's not my fault. BOURDAIN: Man, this is so -- let me say, this food is extraordinary. I mean, really, really, really amazing.

When I was here last, it was a very different mood. Now at least, the tenor of the things said by the government are increasingly ugly.

VASSAF: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: An intolerant. You have this social activism that's very unusual. Certainly, the government is sort of appealing to traditional Islamic values whether it's for show or not, there seems to be some reevaluation of how much of a party town do we want to be?

VASSAF: These days, the powers that be don't like it and...

BOURDAIN: Do they genuinely not like it, or are they appealing to a political base?

VASSAF: Oh, no, it's populism. It's a political base. And lots of people, of course, play along saying that they don't want to drink, et cetera, because that's the way you get your contracts. That's the way you get things done.

BOURDAIN: But I mean, nationalism seems to be working internally.

VASSAF: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Nationalism and xenophobia, it's a vote getter almost anywhere.

VASSAF: Well, it's a vote getter, but it's a vote loser as well in the sense that there's so much backlash.

BOURDAIN: What do you think's going to happen?

VASSAF: Get back to normal.

BOURDAIN: You think it will go?

VASSAF: Oh, yeah.



[21:46:48] BOURDAIN: Walking down Istanbul streets, it's easy to forget or not take seriously the slow but certain change in attitude towards this kind of freedom. The right, for lack of a better term, to party. The AKP is in power because the majority of voters put them there. Their attitudes for better or worse reflect the attitudes of a great number of Turks.

NURI: All right, man.

BOURDAIN: This is Nuri, a Turkish businessman.

I'm glad we met you because you are an AKP supporter. You voted for AKP. NURI: Yeah, I did.

BOURDAIN: Right. Why?

NURI: Before, economy was so bad. No foreign investment. Interest rates were so high. Inflation was about 100 percent per year. So it's very hard to make business in such circumstances. In 2002, I had 78 employees. Now it's 250.

BOURDAIN: Since I got here, I've been talking to a lot of people who are very upset about the environment, they're upset about the destruction of old, beautiful buildings. To a great extent, they do not like what much of the world would call progress. So when you saw people running out in the streets and demonstrating, what was your feeling?

NURI: They said they went there for the trees. They went there for the environment. But at the end, they worked together, we did terrorize people. We have to accept Istanbul like this. You got nothing to do. I cannot change it. No one can change it.

BOURDAIN: No going back.

NURI: Fifty years ago, they could do some things, but not now.

BOURDAIN: You're not sentimental about the old neighborhoods, the old?

NURI: No. I've got used to it.

BOURDAIN: This is a party town. This is a nightclub town. The impression is that there's some ambivalence there. Ten years from now, will we be able to come to this bar or a bar like it and drink lots of gin drinks and misbehave? No problem?

NURI: No problem I think. This is a party town.

BOURDAIN: Right.

NURI: We drink hard.

BOURDAIN: So it's all about money.

NURI: It's all about money. Everything is all about money in the world.

BOURDAIN: Who will be Turkey's bestest  town? Internationally? Which way are they looking, to the east or the west?

NURI: East, Russia, China, Vietnam and the Arabic countries. Of course at west, Europe is getting weaker and weaker day by day. The next 50 years, it's going to be the era of the east, not the west.

[21:50:11] BOURDAIN: So these notions of like freedom of the press, these are not eastern concepts?

NURI: No. No, no.

BOURDAIN: They're not. OK I'm going to ask you something. Is freedom of the press overrated?

NURI: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's overrated.

BOURDAIN: You think tightening up on the press is a sacrifice that you're willing to make for a good economy. I don't want to put words in your mouth or prosperity for the majority.

NURI: It is. It's the same all over the world. It's not typical for Turkey.

BOURDAIN: Right.

NURI: That's life.

BOURDAIN: So, thank you.

NURI: Thank you.

BOURDAIN: This is a really bad idea. OK. Cheers.







[21:55:] YALCINALP: Hi?

BOURDAIN: Esra, of course, good to see you.

YALCINALP: Welcome to our park.

BOURDAIN: Oh, man. I'm glad I haven't eaten yet. That is pretty awesome looking.

YALCINALP: So have you ever had Turkish breakfast before?

BOURDAIN: With you. I love it, you need to do eggs in the park, pretty impressive.

YALCINALP: Yeah. This place is called  Park. It's one of the last remaining parks in the vicinity.

Since 2013, people have been gathering here in what we call forums to talk about their ideas for different -- how can I say?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Debates, chats, different people gathering here at night after work. And then talking, trying to find solutions, right? We didn't have any other place to go. So we came here.

BOURDAIN: Why is it so important?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it's not just for us, for future residents of Istanbul.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This space turns into a space of politics, a space of hope against the system which seems to be like impossible to break, actually.

BOURDAIN: Is it impossible to break?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No. Not now.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was impossible a few weeks ago.

BOURDAIN: A few weeks ago it was impossible. So you're feeling optimistic?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The hope is the revolution, you know? If you lose your hope. then there is nothing to do.

YALCINALP: I think the tide is turning.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But for the -- if you compare Arab Spring and this park, I think -- I mean, in the Arab Spring, they are protesting against a dictatorship. But in Turkey I think we can say there is democracy.

BOURDAIN: Esra and her friends, previously unlikely to have known much less come to like one another were brought together by circumstances.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Have you been gassed?

YALCINALP: Not that much but yeah.

BOURDAIN: By gas, are you talking about pollution?

YALCINALP: Yes, and also tear gas.

BOURDAIN: Oh, tear gas?

YALCINALP: When you are getting gassed together, you really connect through a life or death situations. You hold each other and run away together. It was a very actually emotional thing for me because all my life, I was taught to keep away from different types of peoples, like I never had a Kurdish friend. I never had a people around me were all like me. And I was lacking so much richness in my life. Thanks to , I saw everyone is the same.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: People are at real democracy in guessing people learn to speak. Like, this is tear gas connecting people.

YALCINALP: Tear gas connecting people.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is one way together.

BOURDAIN: Democracy is always a fragile thing. Ninety two years ago, modern Turkey was assembled from the fragments of the Ottoman Empire.

It has always struggled to find a balance between those in power and the consent of its widely diverse population.

Since the filming of this episode, Turkey's newly elected parliament failed to form a coalition. And President Erdogan quickly called for new elections.

At the same time, his revved up military action against Kurdish opposition forces in both Southeastern Turkey and across the border in Kurdish, Iraq.

Many claimed that he effectively plunged Turkey into conflict in a bid to take advantage of an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty. And improve his party's chances of success. This is not an unreasonable assumption on anyone's part. Fear works. Fear gets votes. The opposition had hoped that the tide was turning. It remains to be seen if they have any reason to hope.












Ethiopia. Aired 8-9p ET

Aired November 1, 2015 - 20:00   ET






[20:18:00] ANTHONY BOURDAIN, CNN HOST OF "UNKNOWN PARTS" : Where is home? Most of us are born with the answer. Others have to sift through the pieces.









UNIDENTIFIED MALE SPEAKER: Addis Ababa 





BOURDAIN : Admit it. You hear the name, Ethiopia, and you think starving children with distended bellies. You think just and famine and despair so awful you frankly do not want to even think about it anymore.

But take a look, Addis Ababa, capital city of Ethiopia. A cool high altitude urban center that will both confirm and confound expectations. Fueled largely by direct foreign investment and a returning Ethiopian Diaspora eager to be part of the new growth, things are changing in Addis. It is one of the fastest growing economies in the world.

It is not the first time the place has gone through a growth spurt. In the 1950s, Emperor Haile Seassie known as the king of kings embarked on a similar program of massive public works. This was supposed to be legacy of the Ethiopia. The future.

But the next time Ethiopia found itself in the headlines, it was for this. And, for many of us, that was the end of the story.



BOURDAIN : So, I am looking forward to this week. MARCUS 'JOAR' SAMUELSSON, ETHEIOPIAN-BORN, SWEDISH-RAISED CHEF

AND RESTAURATEUR: I cannot wait to show you Ethiopia.

BOURDAIN: I have been waiting for you. I tell you right now.

SAMUELSSON: Yes. I could not have picked a better time, because we have old Ethiopia right here and we also have new Ethiopia right here. And, that is like - that combo is going to be so cool.



BOURDAIN : Marcus Samuelsson. Maybe you know him from such shows as a lot of them or his many restaurants, his bestselling memoir, his status as America's most recognizable black chef. But, Marcus is not African-American.

He is Swedish-American or Ethiopian-Swedish-American or -- look, it is complicated. What is true to say is that Marcus Samuelsson like his wife, Maya, was born here in Ethiopia.



BOURDAIN : So, when was the last time you were in Ethiopia?

SAMUELSSON: Four years ago, and you can tell it is changed. It changed a lot.

BOURDAIN : I am interested in seeing an African country that was never colonized. It was never taken by Europe.

SAMUELSON: No, that sense of pride -- and you really hit the nail on the head. I mean, that sense of pride is also the sense of that everyone wants to come back.

BOURDAIN : How does it feel coming back? Is it weird at all? You feel like you are coming home?

SAMUELSSON: It is weird, but end of the day, I always love it. I miss it. One foot of me is like, just Ethiopian, but then the other foot is just so Swedish or American at this point, right?

BOURDAIN : You do not speak the language here or any of the dialects.

SAMUELSSON: No.

BOURDAIN : You have -- since you come back here, you reconnected with family.

SAMUELSSON: Yes.

BOURDAIN : But it must be weird to, I mean --

SAMUELSSON: It is.

BOURDAIN : To -- you need a translator.

SAMUELSSON: No, but -- I need a translator. My wife is not my translator in life and in culture and so many things, but I think when -- when you are a black man, when you are an immigrant, when you are an Ethiopian, when you are a Swedish, I have been put in so many situations that I put myself into. So, I am actually very comfortable enough being uncomfortable.





[20:05:20] BOURDAIN : In the 1970s, Ethiopia was hit with a tuberculosis epidemic. Marcus, his older sister, Fantaye, and his mom were all stricken with the disease. With no possibility of medical attention in their village, facing the almost inevitable death of both her children, Marcus' mom set out on foot with her daughter at her side and 2-year-old Marcus on her back walking 75 miles to the Swedish hospital in Addis.

Against all odds, they made it. Marcus and Fantaye recovered. Their mother did not. Marcus and his sister were adopted by Ann Marie and Lennart Samuelsson, and raised from that point on in Sweden. Ethiopia, it's language, it's food, it's cultures was largely a mystery.

Marcus traveled and trained, apprenticing in some of the great kitchens of Europe. He moved to New York. Ad, at the remarkably young age of 23 received three stars from "The New York Times" at his groundbreaking restaurant, "Aquavit." It has been a pretty stellar rise since then. And, in 2010, he opened "Red Rooster" in Harlem.



SAMUELSSON: I always find, I was born into very little food, but yet sort of I made my whole life about food. My sort of structure and pragmatism comes from being raised in Sweden, and my sort of vibrancy and warmth to cooking and feel-based food that I love comes definitely from here.





BOURDAIN : Weirdly enough, the single aspect of Ethiopian culture most westerners do know a little about is Ethiopian food. So, maybe you have this.



BOURDAIN : Oh, wow. That looks good. That -- that is exciting. What is it?

MAYA SAMUELSSON, MARCUS SAMUELSSON'S WIFE: This is a typical Ethiopian vegetarian, they make it really nice.



BOURDAIN : At Katanga restaurant, they do it classic. Injera bread, that is Ethiopian 101.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: I mean, when you think about Ethiopian food, right, the foundation is really the Injera bread.

BOURDAIN : That is not just food, it is an implement.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Yes.



BOURDAIN : We are having beyaynetu, with selection of stews or wat sauce they called around here. That is Gomen, sauteed greens. Shiro Wat, which is a chickpea stew and Tikil Gomen, sauteed white cabbage. Many, if not most of the dishes, spiced with the magical mysterious flavoring of the Gods, Berbere.



MAYA SAMUELSSON: Can I -- Can I get you one that nobody would do it. May I?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: You have to.



BOURDAIN : This -- This stuffing of food in your fellow diners' face is called gursha, and it is what you do to show your affection and respect. Try this at the waffle house sometime and prepare for awkwardness.



BOURDAIN : Now -- you were born here?

MAYA SAMUELSSON: I was born here.

BOURDAIN : Left at what age?

MAYA SAMUELSSON: 13. I grew up in Holland. And, after that we all went to London, Germany. I am in New York now. So --

BOURDAIN : I do not want to say it is a rootless existence, but it is -- you know, where is home?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: I think for us now, Harlem is really home. But when I have been gone for two years, I am like, I got to go back. Because the beat is just so different than what Sweden can offer me and definitely what New York can offer me.





BOURDAIN : The median age in Ethiopia is under 18. That means most people here do not remember live aid or any of that. Coupled with a recent economic boom, this might be the first generation in decades to enjoy a future with real hope. Things are, indeed, happening. In this case, at a vacant bus stop.





MARCUS SAMUELSSON: They are Dog Town, man, they are the next generation Dog Town in Africa.



BOURDAIN : A few years back, a couple of Ethiopians who had living abroad returned to Addis with some skateboards. Today, there are couple hundred skaters of Ethiopia and more on the sidelines waiting for their chance, waiting for a board, waiting for a pair of sneakers.



[20:10:00] BOURDAIN : It is funny that, it is like skater board culture came from white southern California's suburban -- if you could pretty much track all the skater culture back to one parking lot.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Yes.

BOURDAIN: So, what is coming out of this parking lot?



BOURDAIN : There are no skateboard shops in Ethiopia. None. They have to come all of them from abroad.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Woo! Nice.

BOURDAN : The little kid is good.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: The little kid is amazing.



BOURDAIN : For those lucky enough to have them, progression seems to be fast.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: This gives me hope. Honestly. This can be a really cool town. Not just a great town with big buildings, you know? but a cool town, too. 

BOURDAIN : For skater boys and television hosts, alike, the thing to do in late-night Addis is something called turbo and tibs.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: I feel like a college party or something like that. It is perfect.



BOURDAIN : Turbo is a mutant concoction consisting of gin, beer, wine, and sprite.



BOURDAIN : What is the first rule of drinking?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Do not mix.



Abenezer Temesgen, Addisu Hailemichael, and Bezueyo Julien founded Ethiopia skate. The grassroots skating community that grew up in the parking lots around Addis. Sean Stromsoe was a founding member who has been documenting the group.



BOURDAIN : All right, man. My first -- my first turbo. Cheers.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Cheers!

SEAN STROMTOSE, A FOUNDING MEMBER WHO WAS DOCUMENTING THE GROUP: Cheers!

ABENEZER TEMESGEN, ETHOPIAN SKATE COFOUNDER: Cheers!

ADDISU HAILEMICHAEL, ETHOPIAN SKATE COFOUNDER: Cheers!

BEZUEYO JULIEN, ETHOPIAN SKATE COFOUNDER: Cheers!

HAILEMICHAEL: Like apple juice.

BOURDAIN : You are right.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Sweet.

BOURDAN : It is like apple juice.



BOURDAIN : Shekla tibs are chunks of beef or lamb fried in oil and served in a charcoal heated clay pot called a Shekla.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Nice! I like the fat. I love that. They do not add the fat.



BOURDAIN : Every tibs house has their own version, but here, at Mesai  Grocery, it is served with a spicy dipping sauce called Mitmita. And, of course, Injera bread.



BOURDAIN : Yes, that is good. That works.

TEMESGEN: Gursha!

BOURDAIN: Thank you.



BOURDAIN : How did this skating community form? I mean, did people watch what other people were doing around the world?

HAILEMICHAEL: Definitely.

TEMESGEN: Some of them, they go to the internet cafe and they just see videos. That is how I started.

HAILEMICHAEL: Back in the days, no internet for me.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Oh, wow!

HAILEMICHAEL: I had to do it, like, the hard way, man.

BOURDAIN : I would tell you right now. If I were Ethiopian, if I even lived here, I would open a skate shop tomorrow. Tomorrow.



So, what is the best thing about Ethiopia right now?

TEMESGEN: I mean I think back in the days, you know, people want to get out from this country, just leave. But, now they are like, they just want to work and their mind has changed. And, everybody is working together. And, working for the better. We are doing this for the next generation, because the next generation is going to take this.

BOURDAIN : Did we drink all that turbo? We are terrible people, man.







[20:13:18] 









[20:16:28] BOURDAIN : So, time to catch a bus.

MAYA SAMUELSSON: You guys need to be me bodyguard.

BOURDAIN : No problem.

This place is awesome!





BOURDAIN : This is a charming Ethiopian Institution called a "Tejbet." They serve one thing and only one thing, Tej. An alcoholic beverage made from fermented barley and honey.



BOURDAIN : It is not highly alcoholic, though, right? You got to pretty much hammer back a lot of this stuff --

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Yes.

BOURDAIN : -- to get a buzz. So, basically, the people around here -- they have been working on this for a long time.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: All day. This is a working class. This is where the workers go.

BOURDAIN : With a chief buzz.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: With a chief buzz.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Cheers. You just knock it back.

BOURDAN : All right.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: It is good. You feel the funk?

BOURDAIN : Oh, yes! It is working, man.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: I have never seen a woman in a bar like this.

BOURDAIN : This is sort of a guy thing?

MAYA SAMUELSSON: It is my first time. Yes. Guys after work or the farmers.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: You are breaking major rules here.

MAYA SAMUELSSON: And, you have all like decent, speak to them and drinking.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: And, there is a lot of Jesus in the bars.

BOURDAIN : That is the last thing I want to see in the bar, with disapproving gaze of a saint.





BOURDAIN : In 1992, Addis emerged from the stifling 17-year grip of a hard line old school Maoist regime called the Derg. Since then, the town has been enjoying something of a musical renaissance.

But, the story of Ethiopian music all the way back to the beginning has been about finding ways to skirt authority, to mock it even. To say what you want to say one way or the other.

The Azmari are Ethiopia's original freestyle rappers. They have been around for centuries voicing criticism, dissatisfaction, dissent, even when others could not.



BOURDAIN : So, how old?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Maya, how old is Azmari been? I would say what? 2,000 years?

MAYA SAMUELSSO: Yes, like the first music we that had, right?



BOURDAIN : The trick is they have always used a system of lyrical double meanings referred to as wax meaning. "The apparent meaning" and gold, which is "The underlying or real meaning." Poking fun at the audience is fundamental to the form.





UNIDENTIFIED MALE SPEAKER : Anthony is quiet and not saying much, not because he is uppity. It is just that he finds the language quite hard.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE SPEAKER : Oh my dear Marcus, my endearment. He is the one, Obama's cook. Now, we can say we saw him with our own eyes.

BOURDAIN : Maya, you got to help him out. Maya, go, go, go.

[20:20:05] MARCUS SAMUELSSON: She can move and I am like, Oh!





The Azmari influenced Ethiopian popular music, too. The use of lyrical double meanings carried through into Selassie's time. They called it swinging Addis, a golden time between 1955 and 1974. Before those fun-hating comis came and ruined everything.

Post-World War II, Ethiopia was in the delirious thrall of American big band and swing groups like Glen Miller and against the backdrop of a traditional and official obsession with military marching bands, Mahmoud Ahmed, has always been at the forefront.





BOURDAIN : When you look to the west, were there American musicians who spoke to you?

MAHMOUD AHMED, MILITARY MARCHING BAND: Back then, the ones I used to listen were Elvis Presley, Sam Cooke, James Brown, and then there was Nat King Cole. There was this music I played inspired by Elvis Presley's music "Jailhouse Rock." I used to dance and move my legs just like Elvis Presley. When I performed fast tempo music, I used to shake my legs just like him.





BOURDAIN : Combining elements of jazz, swing, R&B and distinctive Ethiopian scales and time signatures and an always killer horn section, well, listen for yourself.







[20:27:44] BOURDAIN : The Shola Market in Addis Ababa. It is where you come for what you need.

 BOURDAIN : What are we here to buy, by the way? What

is the plan?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: I want to make Doro Wat, really, the king of chicken dishes in Ethiopia.

All right. So, we are going to head down here, get some good butter. Smell the fermentation.

BOURDAIN : Uh-huh.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: The funk.

BOUDAIN : Funk.



BOURDAIN : Kibe, an Ethiopian butter in various stages of fermentation depending on what you like. It is a primary ingredient in much of the cooking.



MAYA SAMUELSSON: So, there is between one that is really fermented and another one is a medium. So, she says we should use the medium one --

BOURDAIN : Right.

MAYA SAMUELSSON: -- for chicken soup. And, you use all the spices. It is the most important thing.



BOURDAIN : People from Gurage, Maya's tribal area run the market. So, she knows the language and how to negotiate.



BOURDAIN : I can smell a frightened chicken --

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Yes.

BOURDAIN : -- a mile off. Here we go. So, how many do we need?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: I just think we need three is fine.



BOURDAIN : My mama then told me get something for dinner. In this case, chicken. Fresh, please.



BOURDAIN : See yah, would not want to be yah. 

BOURDAIN : Oh, that is fresh.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: I love all the sounds. Like, it is like chicken there, music there.



MAYA SAMUELSSON: How is he get the skin off?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: One move. He did it.

MAYA SAMUELSSON: We used to use like a hot boil water --

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Yes.

MAYA SAMUELSSON: -- after killing it.

BOURDAIN : Right, dip them in.

MAYA SAMUELSSON: Dip it there. That is how I grew up.





BOURDAIN : Morocco has Ras el hanout. India, garam masala masala. Ethiopia has this, the brightly colored Berbere.



[20:30:11] The color is amazing and those guys who grind the stuff are covered with it, breathe it, all day long.



BOURDAIN : Still warm. Wow! That is sort of magic, man.



BOURDAIN : Marcus left Ethiopia at age 2, so finding and reconnecting with his family has not been easy. Tracking down a mom who died in similar circumstances on the right dates following a thread to a dusty village in the Oromo region where Marcus found the man he has come to accept as his biological father. He also found Theus, Solem, Sebani, Ashu, and Daniel , presumably his siblings by another mother. Together, Marcus and his sisters make Doro Wat, a classic Chicken Stew.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: In the '90s, if we go back to New York to be the chef I have to be, I really need.

Welcome to our Tsegai family meal. Tsegai family meal. So, we start with the Injera bread, right?

MAYA SAMUELSSON: Yes.



BOURDAIN : Besides the Dora Wat, we have cabbage, beets, and collards. Root vegetables finished with the livers and giblets of the chicken.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Actually, it looks spicier than it is.

BOURDAIN : But very good.



BOURDAIN : Though a continuing bone of contention with his father, Marcus and Maya have sponsored the girls moving them all to the city and getting them into school.

In the countryside, these girls faced the likelihood of forced marriage, even abduction and very little chance of the kind of future they might have now.



BOURDAIN : So, how would that go over with the family when you said, I am going to try to help you?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: I mean, my dad was, like, "Absolutely not. We need them on the farm."

BOURDAIN: Right.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: It could not have been done without Maya, really not only translate but also understands the culture.

BOURDAIN : Yes.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Because I felt also bad coming in as the, quote/unquote, "American," saying "OK, everyone should move to the city." I have to be gradually two by two by two.

BOURDAIN : Right.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: So, when I had to pick which two, I picked the girls, because otherwise she would have been out of school by second grade. If she would have followed the tradition of the country.

BOURDAIN : Second grade. That is it.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Yes.

BOURDAIN : What after that?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: You stay -- you work at home.







MARCUS SAMUELSSON: It has been very enriching and loving, you know, for us, and we have a purpose. You know, we know what our goal is. Our goal is to get them through school. You are looking at a chemist in a couple of months.

Whatever new Ethiopia you see, they are it. Farmers coming in, and going to school, and now have options.









[20:37:31] BOURDAIN : Addis is one thing, a city experiencing a renaissance of sorts, an economic boom. Outside of the city, the farther away one gets, one is reminded that, in fact, Ethiopia remains one of the poorest countries in the world.

Marcus and Maya come from two completely different tribes, two completely different regions of Ethiopia with distinct languages and cultures all their own. Maya comes from the Gurage region, a more fertile, green agricultural area than Marcus'. It is about three hours out from the city, and it is beautiful.



Maya, it should be noted, left home at a much later age. There is no question of identity. She is African. She is Guragen. And, she retains close ties to her family and to her village.



MAYA SAMUELSSON: Welcome to Gurage.

BOURDAIN : Thank you.



BOURDAIN : She was here just last year. It has been four years since they have seen Marcus. Maya's mother, Bezunesh and de facto grandmother Ahl, welcome us.

When visitors come, everything starts with coffee. Traditionally, it is served here with a bit of salt, not sugar.





BOURDAIN : It is good.



BOURDAIN : Maya's story differs from Marcus' in a lot of ways. It was not disease or famine or poverty that drove her and her brother, Petros, to Europe and a new life. It was the brutal reality of politics.



BOURDAIN : So, who was your father?

MAYA SAMUELSSON: My dad was my hero and everyone's hero, -- I do not mean everyone, but my brother could explain a little bit more.

[20:40:00] PETROS HAILE, BROTHER OF MAYA SAMUELSSON: He was a local chief, and also a member of the supreme or the highest court, you can say. During the Haile Selassie period, he was engaged in more innovative and experimental and mechanized farm. During the communist period.

BOURDAIN : Yes.

PETROS HAILE: You know, something unexpected happened.



BOURDAIN : In 1974, Emperor Haile Salassie was deposed in the very unpleasant general Mengistu and a hard line communist regime called the Derg, took over the country. As in China, all agricultural property was taken over by the state and broken up into small parcels.



PETROS HAILE: Everything what my father had, the land, the property, is confiscated. And those who had the authority, they had the chance to work together, to cooperate, or they were enemies.

BOURDAIN : Right.



BOURDAIN : Anyone deemed an enemy of the state, and this could be a very dangerously loose definition, but usually and typically included the educated, the well-off and anyone associated with the former government were hunted down, shunned, jailed, harassed and often straight-out killed.

Maya's dad was all those things. An educated landowner and part of the rural tribal administration from the Selassie time. Most people who had the means left the country.



PETROS HAILE: I know this guy who is appointed, you know, as the governor of the region. He has 60 people in the region in three years' time.

MAYA SAMUELSSON: Nobody knows where he is coming.

BOURDAIN : So, he would just knock on our door and my mom, she gets every time he comes. He leave her bullets. He tells her, this bullet next time is yours if you do not bring your husband. So, my dad always came to visit us in nighttime. So, he never been really home around during the daytime.

BOURDAIN : So, for most of that time your father had to live in hiding?

MAYA SAMUELSSON: Yes.

PETROS HAILE: Yes. And, then we all survived by the grace of God. We are blessed for this.









BOURDAIN : Morning in Maya's village. Marcus is a runner. Every day, wherever he is, he runs a few miles. Me, not so much. But, what with my cardio shockingly improved of late, I figured I would give it a try.

Maya and Marcus' return, not to mention the invasion of a big foreign television crew is reason or maybe excuse for a big party. And, preparations have already begun.

Maya slips seamlessly from her other life as a high fashion model backs into a more traditional role in village life, working along with an army of other women to prepare what looks like a massive feast.



BOURDAIN : How do the ladies feel about you cooking?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: This is --

BOURDAIN : Causing serious problem?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: No, you already caused it, because you are the first foreigner ever in that kitchen.

 BOURDAIN : A lamb, of course, must be slaughtered.

Actually, in this case, two lambs because here as in much of Ethiopia, Muslims and Christians live side by side. One lamb gets the halal treatment. One for the Christians.

It is a peculiar history of peaceful co-existence here of which Ethiopians are quite proud. The Christians came here during the time of the apostles from the very beginnings of Christianity as a religion.

And, the belief is that Muhammad after being persecuted and driven from Mecca by the Quraysh fled to Ethiopia where he found refuge.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Dog is happy.

BOURDAIN : Yes.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Nice and blood in his face.

BOURDAIN : Oh, yes. It is awesome.



BOURDAIN : The production continues. Women in the kitchen except for Marcus who looks most comfortable there, though his presence is a befuddlement to the others. Men taking care of the meat. Oh, bro food traditions, you are everywhere.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: You know, none of the people have cooked today. All of them are like --

BOURDAIN : Like in rural communities, if you kill a big -- couple of animals, everybody in the village has sort of like -- chosen specialty? Like, you Bob, over there, he does the crack.

[20:50:00] He over there does the budan. Somebody else over there is good at scraping the fur of. Somebody else -- like everybody got a function, you know, it goes back to the first fire. I will bring the dip, you know?







UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE SPEAKER: Normally, you hold it like this and then you put everything you want over here.

BOURDAIN : Got it.





UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE SPEAKER: Take it around.

BOURDAIN: Perfect.



BOURDAIN : Gomen and Ayeb are greens like collards with a berbere and ayeb cheese.



BOURDAIN : I like the cheese. It is like ricotta.



BOURDAIN : Lamb Kitfo prepared Gurage style. Laboriously diced, amazing.



MAYA SAMUELSSON: This is all our dinner.

BOURDAIN : Yes. I got some of that vegetables. That is delicious.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Yes.



BOURDAIN : This you love without reservation.



BOURDAIN : Barbecue. Now we are talking. Man, what a meal. Pretty impressive.



BOURDAIN : Then whisky, and music, and the party really starts going.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Thank you for coming to Ethiopia.











[20:55:37] BOURDAIN : In 2004 at the prompting of his sister, Marcus began an exhaustive search for his lost family. Who was he, after all? Where exactly did he come from? Who in his family had survived, who was left? Where were they?

He was told that his father was still alive living here in the village of Abru Gundana  Southeast of Addis. For adoptees looking to return to reconnect, the journey is complicated. For Marcus, each trip is always raised more questions than it is answers. This trip is no different.



MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Every time that last five-minute drive, right? It just makes me nervous. Make me really, really excited and nervous at the same time, right? But, it is just, take the American hat off and take the Swedish had off, it is just a different grid.

BOURDAIN : You are on --

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: It is not. I come from a dusty place.



BOURDAIN : You are not kidding.







MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Oh, they changed it.

MAYA SAMUELSSON: They change it. They make it big.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Yes.



BOURDAIN : I leave Marcus alone with his father. This is between them.



UNIDENTIFIED MALE SPEAKER: Marcus.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE SPEAKER: Abru Gundana --

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Abru Gundana. I like it. I like Abru Gundana. .

MAYA SAMUELSSON: He want us to see how you guys look-alike. MARCUS SAMUELSSON: I was not ready for this.

MAYA SAMUELSSON: Where is the link? It does matter.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Proof! Proof.



MAYA SAMUELSSON: Good idea. He has a better foot than you.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Yes, he does. He does. I was not ready for this.









BOURDAIN : So, how does it feel to be back? I have to tell you, if I can be honest, you seem conflicted.

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Yes. There is a thousand thoughts going through my head. I feel a little guilty that I got out.

BOURDAIN : If you stayed, what do you think you would be doing right now?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: I would have been a farmer or dealt with some type of cattle.

BOURDAIN : I am pretty sure you would be a sheep farmer --

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: I would --

BOURDAIN : You would be the best-dressed goddamn farmer, that is for sure. Where is home for you, man. What do you think? Looking back on it all --

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Yes. That is an internal question for me, you know? I feel at home in New York. I feel very much home when I am in Africa. But I also feel out of place, and coming to this very place, Abru Gundana, it gives me a lot of humility, but I cannot say it is home. I cannot say it is home.



BOURDAIN : Happiest moment in Africa?

MARCUS SAMUELSSON: Happiest moment is I think is when we were at the Maya's village for me, the whole village comes together -- music, food, culture brings everybody together. The eating together, being together, it is by far the happiest to me.



[22:00:00] 















[21:00:00]

BOURDAIN: What does it mean to be strong? It implies hardness and flexibility. Okinawa is a place with a fighting tradition and a history of ferocious resistance but it's nothing like what you might think. Not at all.

This is Okinawa. Just south of mainland Japan. For all the relative rigidity of the mainland, Okinawa answers in its own unique way. Don't eat the same thing each day. That's boring. There's even an Okinawan term for it, champuru, something mixed. Bits borrowed from all over, served up for anyone to eat.

But maybe you're more familiar with the name, Okinawa, from this, as the setting for some of the most horrifyingly bloody battles of the Second World War. How horrifying? For the ally, there were more than 50,000 casualties with around 12,000 killed or missing in action. Over nearly three months of fighting. More than 100,000 Japanese soldiers and Okinawan conscripts were killed defending the island.

Civilians were stuck in the middle of the two armies and got crushed. No one will know for sure, but historians estimate 150,000 men, women, and children lost their lives during the battle. What most don't know is that Okinawa had only become Japan fairly recently. That's with great extent Okinawans didn't even consider themselves really Japanese or vice versa. That Okinawans and Japanese considered themselves to be different ethnicities, spoke two different languages and culturally, culinarily, and many other ways looked in different directions.

Yet, Okinawans were asked to make the ultimate sacrifice, and they did. That's not just ancient history. It informs the present, still.

Okinawa is the largest of over 100 islands making up the Ryukyu island chain. It's just over 300 miles from the mainland, but worlds apart. Okinawa is different. It's tropical. Clear waters. Some of the best beaches in Asia. To the decidedly more laid back, less frenetic, self-serious attitude than the mainland.

You can feel it. You can see it. It's just different here.

2,000 pounds of heavily muscled beef enters the arena. You can feel the ground shake under its heavy hoofs. His opponent awaits. Togyu, also known as oshi sumo. Sumo, yes, but bull sumo. These are professionals, and like Jake Lamotta and Chuck Wepner before them, they shall live to fight or do other stuff another day. Having shed decidedly less blood than either of those two gentlemen. Two animals, two handlers. And they do like the verges memories job in rocky.

Unlike fighters of sumo, the bulls are ranked by their ability, their record in the ring. The highest being Yokozuna. This is Kenny Aman. He lives up the road. Is there a time limit or do they go until somebody gives up?

[21:05:02]

KENNY AMAN, OKINAWAN: I think they pretty much go until somebody gives up. When it gets around with one...

BOURDAIN: Is there a points system?

AMAN: No, there's no points system. Basically when the other one turns around and runs away, that's the winner. Few times one bull will actually get around to the side and actually be able to flip the bull over.

BOURDAIN: Right. Win or lose or survive? Both?

AMAN: Most of the times you'll have injuries but most the time the bulls go home and...

BOURDAIN: They go home to be happy?

AMAN: They do.

BOURDAIN: Nobody's turned into steaks or cutlets?

AMAN: No.

BOURDAIN: Togyu started as early as the 17th century with farmers pitting bull against bull. They love it in agricultural communities so much that it was briefly banned in some places because farmers were spending too much time at the fights and not enough time growing sugarcane.

Like Cus D'amato in the young Tyson, their handlers raise these beasts from cabs caring for them on one hand, and training them, conditioning them to be monsters in the ring on the other. Yeah. Does one wager on this?

AMAN: I guess the official answer would be that gambling's illegal in Japan, but...

BOURDAIN: Intermission. Time for a corn dog, some funnel cake, curly fries? No. Better. Much better. Yakitori. Yes, they have that. But when in Okinawa, do as the Okinawas do. Yakisoba. Start with pork belly as one should, some hacked up sausage, cabbage, carrots, fry that stuff up on the griddle, add some chukamen noodles, sauce, soy, mirin, brown sugar, vinegar and a bit of sake. Top with seaweed a bit of pickled ginger garnish and eat now. He looks that scary. Yeah.

AMAN: He's ready to go. This guy I think is going to win this one.

BOURDAIN: But we haven't seen his opponent. Yeah. My money's on him.

Pretty decisive win at that. I'm not accusing anybody of gambling, but I see some money changing hands. 

If you're looking for sushi or ramen, you of course, find them in Okinawa. But what you need to know, what you must know, is that in Okinawa, pork is king. OK, they got tofu, too.

Here at Oruzun, they do specifically Okinawan food the Okinawan way.

UNIDENTIFED FEMALE: 

AMAN: 

This is the tofu...

BOURDAIN: OK.

AMAN: ... which you eat a little at a time.

BOURDAIN: Is it that strong?

AMAN: It is a little strong, yeah. It has, like, a cheese type of texture.

BOURDAIN: It's good.

AMAN: Not bad, right?

BOURDAIN: It is like blue cheese. Pork belly?

AMAN: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Okinawans love pork, every part of the magical animal, the pig. At Oruzun, the pork belly is slowly cooked in stock heavily infused with bonito flakes and awabori . The ears are simmered until tender, thinly sliced and addressed in rice wine vinaigrette. And the ribs after brining in sake and seasonings are slowly roasted. So you grew up in New Jersey. How did you find your way to Okinawa?

AMAN: Well, my mom was from here. My dad was in the navy. He was stationed here, met my mom and wound up back in New Jersey because that's where my dad was from, Paterson. And I was born and raised there. The school I went to was predominantly Caucasian kids. There wasn't many Asian-Americans at all.

[21:10:01]

BOURDAIN: Right.

AMAN: And I always had this kind of like identity complex. There would be, like, times where people would come to the house. They'd say, "Oh, where's your mom from? Is she from China?"

BOURDAIN: Oh God. Yeah. Right.

AMAN: Open the refrigerator and there would be some weird food. Hey, what's that? What do you eat? And every time I heard that, I was like, "Wow, am I like -- am I different?" And also, one day my mom says, "We're going back to Okinawa on a family trip." I was 17 years old.

BOURDAIN: And you'd never been up to that point?

AMAN: No, but when I got off the plane, I don't know what it was. It was like, I'm here. This is my home. Being able to connect my heritage, I felt something. I was like, "Wow, I belong here."

BOURDAIN: How about the food? What was in that refrigerator? Because I know a lot of kids who grew up with that same sort of uncertainty when they brought their friends home from school to their house and opened the refrigerator. You know, like Kimchi or cabbage or fish sauce. They were aware of it when they visited their friends.

AMAN: Sure.

BOURDAIN: And they were acutely and uncomfortable with it when their friends came over.

Man have things changed as far as attitudes, pretty much the engine of the new American cuisine, are kids with childhoods like yours. I don't mean what's hip, what's the next new thing. I mean, literally redefining what is American cuisine?

Let's put it this way. The central irony of this story is that, you know, your mom would have been, like hipster hero of New Jersey now.



UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Still another American invasion in the Pacific. The objective is Okinawa, one of the rings of island fortresses presenting Japan 300 miles way.

[21:15:00]

BOURDAIN: On April 1st, 1945, a U.S. Invasion fleet of nearly 1,500 ships, a landing force of 182,000 people, that's 75,000 more than Normandy, approached Okinawa. What came next was what Okinawa's called a typhoon of steel.

Having island hopped across the pacific, allied forces saw Okinawa as a key base for fleet anchorage, troop staging and air operations for the final push into the Japanese mainland and victory. The fighting was brutal for both sides. The cost in lives and resources for the allied forces was tremendous. And when it was over, military planners looked at the mainland, looked at what Okinawa had cost them, and projected even more appalling losses. What came next, we all know.

What is not widely known is that more people died during the battle of Okinawa than all those killed during the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

MASAHIDE OTA, FORMER GOVERNOR OF OKINAWA: From the very beginning mainland Japanese defense preparation was only 60 percent when the US military landed on Okinawa. So that they had to keep US military forces and their own lives possibly in Okinawa. So that they could prepare defense to protect mainland Japan, so ever since that battle of Okinawa, Okinawan people say we were sort of -- what do you call it?

BOURDAIN: Sacrifice?

OTA: Yes.

BOURDAIN: Masahide Ota is the former governor of Okinawa. In 1945, he was a young conscript in the Japanese imperial army. He fought hard and bravely against the allies until he saw Japanese soldiers murdering Okinawans for food and water and his faith melted away.

Getowan is a private home turned restaurant serving very traditional Okinawan dishes. In on honor of their outspoken former governor, the restaurant prepared a dish typically served to royals and VIPs and what was ones the Ryukyu Kingdom. It's called Tundabun after the dish the multi bite-sized portions are presented in.

OTA: Let's eat.

BOURDAIN: That's very good. There's some squid. Swordfish wrapped in seaweed and simmered in stock and fermented sake. Dried sea snake wrapped in Kombu and slow simmered. Burdock root wrapped in corn slow cooked in hot sauce stuck. Okinawan taro flash fried and dressed with sugar and soy. And pork shoulder dredged in black sesame then steamed.

You have described that you were shocked and surprised to see the Japanese soldiers, the -- their treatment of Okinawans was not good during the battle.

OTA: After the United States forces landed Okinawa, General Headquarters of the Okinawa defense force is issued the order regardless military people or the civilians you cannot use other than standard language. And if you use the Okinawan language, you will be killed as a spy, you know?

BOURDAIN: Right.

OTA: But the Okinawan people cannot understand the standard language, you know? So the Japanese soldiers are killed lots of local people, you know?

BOURDAIN: Particularly given the experience of the war, how Japanese do you think most people feel good here?

OTA: There's a fundamental difference between Japanese culture and Okinawan culture. Japanese culture is warian  culture. But Okinawan culture is absence of militarism. Okinawan people I think  people. BOURDAIN: Do you think that easygoing, that reputation -- that tradition of being happy-go-lucky? Do you think that this has led to Okinawans being taken advantage of? I mean, for instance, the U.S. Military bases. Okinawa is one percent of the landmass of Japan.

[21:20:00] And yet, what percentages of the military bases are here on Okinawa, almost all of them? Okinawa seems to be asked to make a lot of sacrifices for the mainland. Will that ever stop?

OTA: You are talking about .

BOURDAIN: Not in my backyard.

OTA: Yes, yes.



BOURDAIN: For a place with his bloody history, Okinawa is today noticeably more laid back than the mainland, but that does not mean everybody's forgotten their warrior traditions.

When the Feudal Satsuma Empire from the mainland invaded Okinawa in 1609, they banned the carrying, manufacturer, or use of weapons of any kind. The ban was later reinforced in 1879 when Japan formally annexed the island.

It is believed these prohibitions led directly to the development of a new style of martial art, undisputedly born in Okinawa, karate, or empty hands technique.

And it's even more vicious cousin, kobudo, a form that uses farm and fishing tools for lethal effect.

[21:25:04] Hard and soft, balance for everything soft, there must be something hard.

Goju-ryu is one of the main traditional styles of karate featuring a combination of hard and soft techniques. "Go" means hard linear attacks. Closed hand strikes and kicks. "Ju", means soft, open hand, circular, blocking, sweeping, and takedown moves.

Sensei Tetsuhiro Hokama is legendary master of goju-ryu. People come from all over the world to study in his goju and the training they get is hardcore.

I've been invited to watch Hokama Sensei's students warm up. Let me repeat, this is only the warm up.

That that does not they look like fun.

The exercises are designed to repeatedly punish your hands and feet, building up stronger, larger, more protective deposits around the bones, basically weaponizing even your weakest and smallest extremities, and it hurts even to watch.

JAMES PANKOVICH, BLACK BELTER IN RYU KARATE: This is bad. BOURDAIN: James Pankovich, Brit and black belt in showing ryu karate moved to Okinawa in 2009 to study the budo or the way of martial arts. He acts as translator for most of the karate sensei on the island.

Earlier I met James at Hokama Sensei Makishi Public Market in Okinawa's largest city, Naha.

PANKOVICH: That's the tasty one. Right, we're going to take that one.

BOURDAIN: What are these?

PANKOVICH:  so these are puffer fish.

UNIDENTIFED FEMALE: 

PANKOVICH: 

So we got some deep fried fish for us.

BOURDAIN: Gurukun, unofficial national fish of Okinawa, and porcupine fish, both battered and deep fried.

PANKOVICH: They're going to do sashimi.

BOURDAIN: Okinawans eat just about any kind fish sashimi style for us flapper and parrot fish and it loves that because what must serve raw and still twitching in the shell.

PANKOVICH: We're going to get some sea grapes as well.

BOURDAIN: Oh good, good, that's super traditional.

Sea grapes, the classic regional side dish dressed in rice vinegar. What you buy downstairs from vendors, for a small fee restaurant will cook it for you upstairs.

Wow.

SENSEI TETSUHIRO HOKAMA, LEGENDARY MASTER OF GOJU RYU: Oh my God, happy.

BOURDAIN: Wow. So go ahead. So Okinawa's most famous sport, perhaps, is karate.

PANKOVICH: When most of us think of karate, we think of striking, exclusively.

BOURDAIN: Is that an accurate representation of what you're doing?

PANVOKICH: From the basis of Okinawan karate that it was used primarily as defensive art. In other words, being able to, you know, control and subdue the opponent. Usually if you could in a humane way, but then if you had to finish them, then you had the ability to finish them. The striking is important, but a lot of the technique is not about striking. It's about submission techniques. Some of that is to do with kyusho so attacking nerve points. And Hokama Sensei in particular is extremely skilled at dealing with, you know, bigger, stronger opponents.

HOKAMA: Human engineering, very important. Point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, point, and then this point of  fingers no - not working open.

BOURDAIN: The demonstration of Hokama Sensei's Open-hand Kyusho Technique becomes a little too real for my taste. Human engineering with a terrifying logic when attacks the weak point.

All I know how to do in this situation, by the way, is poke hard and look for something to choke or lock. Nope, apparently they don't know what tapping out means here because I was tapping like western god damn union. I thought he was going to push that 71-year-old finger right into my brainpan.

[21:30:00]

PANKOVICH: People were saying in the old days if there was a fight happening somewhere in town, people would go and have a look and they'd say, "Are they fighting with fists or open hands?" If they're fighting with fists, they'd say "I don't bother, it's an amateur fight." If they were fighting with open then they knew there were masters.



UNIDENTIFIED MALE: On the Eastern Coast of Okinawa gangs under the village of Kin.

BOURDAIN: The U.S. military came ashore in 1945 and to Okinawans, it must seem like they never left.

Today, there are roughly 30,000 troops stationed on the island. Put that many Americans in a place, especially young, mostly male Americans, many of them homesick and it tends to change the environment.

Kin town just outside of Naha right by Camp Hansen, one of the larger bases.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The Yanks have look inch by inch to conquer this island.

BOURDAIN: Kin is a small slice of Americana both the mainstream America and it's dark underbellies.

[21:35:00] The Okinawans have made the kind of adjustments that people do neighbors like thousand of marines and sometime in the '80s adjusted food as we knew it to this, a mutant classic, taco rice.

VIVIAnt: Taco and rice. That's taco rice. BOURDAIN: Wow.

VIVIAN TAKUSHI: Wow, it's big.

BOURDAIN: Is this chili sauce or it was ketchup?

TAKUSHI: It the original taco...

BOURDAIN: It's taco sauce.

TAKUSHI: ... taco rice sauce. It's a bit spicy but not super sweet.

BOURDAIN: Oh, good.

TAKUSHI: ... but not, not super spicy.

BOURDAIN: Vivian Takushi has lived in both the U.S. and Okinawa and her aunt Suni Koh, an entertainer who began singing in American bases after the war.

Wow, that's good.

There are dueling claims as to how taco rice might have morphed into existence, but Saluri Shima Bakudo . In 1980s American servicemen introduced the standard taco to Okinawans and her grandfather Natsugiyo Gibo decided to tweak them, jumping the fillings straight on to rice for the late night crowd of marines coming back from the bars.

This unholy, greasy, starchy, probably really unhealthy delight of goose map turned-classic caught on big-time to both Americans missing home and locals.

So I consider myself a pretty pro-military guy, but why are the marines here? Look, I like marines, but, you know, I'm not Robert McNamara but it seems to me if you go to war we're trying to ascending in the marines is probably not what you're going to be doing. People of your generation, what do you think the attitude is towards the military bases?

TAKUSHI: As long as we're not living near the base...

BOURDAIN: Right.

TAKUSHI: -- it doesn't affect us that much.

BOURDAIN: Right. Near the base...

TAKUSHI: Near the base.

BOURDAIN: ... it makes the difference. I mean look it

TAKUSHI: Right.

BOURDAIN: Probably but if you know right away, I mean, its tattoo parlors, strip clubs, a  shops, I mean, you know.

TAKUSHI: And also it's very loud. That's the big issue in that.

BOURDAIN: Tourism is probably the future of Okinawa. You have sunny beautiful weather, beaches. If the bases leave, it's going to be big hotels and resorts and golf courses. Which is worse, Chinese tourists or American marines?

TAKUSI: I'll stick with the marines.

BOURDAIN: Simplified.

Not everybody here agrees with Vivian. By a long shot, Okinawans maybe easy going and laid back but the island is also a relative hot bed of political activism largely inspired to provoke by what Okinawans see as high-handed treatment from a central government with different cultural and historical traditions who don't consider their needs or priorities.

And they are hugely disproportionate shouldering of the U.S. military presence for the entire country. Currently, there are close to 30 military installations on Okinawa, and even though it's one of the smallest Japanese prefectures in terms of livable area, they accommodate more than half of the foreign military presence.

Even more problematic, much of Okinawa's arable land suitable for farming on an island whose whole traditional identity was built around farming is eaten up by military bases.

The military base issue, is this more important for older people or the younger people?

KENJI YODA , OKINAWAN FARMER: It's for older people.

BOURDAIN: It's for the older people.

YODA: Yes. So when you actually go to a place where they have, like, a protest going on, I will say over 80 percent of the people are all retired persons.

BOURDAIN: Why do you think this is?

YODA: This is only my opinion, but Japanese Imperial Army did a lot of brutal stuff on this island and war never ended for some people. And the feelings that they got suppressed, all of a sudden after they retired, they kind of burst and they wanted to kind of...

BOURDAIN: Act out.

YODA: ... act or out.

BOURDAIN: This is Kenji Yoda. He's an Okinawan farmer and this Nishimachi , a small noodle shop that bears only the owner's name and serves only Okinawan-style soba.

Pork belly or ribs is the meat, the broth a mix of fish, chicken, pork, and vegetable stocks. Okinawan soba differs greatly from what we know from the mainland. They use wheat noodles instead of buckwheat not perhaps to the spaghetti eating marines they lived with all these years.

[21:40:00] Garnishes are spring onion, fish cake and slices of omelet. Add you pickle ginger and togorashi hot sauce and hooray.

It seems the anti-base sentiment also coincide with that anti-central government sentiment. You do bear with the hugely disproportionate burden of bases or isn't some activism called for here?

YODA: I think the young generation should decide what to do with our future instead of the old people just fighting for their beliefs. To me I really feel a strong need to forgive. And then forget. And then move on.



BOURDAIN: Long before the war, the Americans arrived. Long before the Satsuma invaded from the mainland, Okinawa was a kingdom, the Ryukyu Kingdom.

A prosperous and peaceful island chain with no standing army. They were farmers, traders, and necessarily diplomats whose eyes more often than not looked west to China rather than to the more isolated mainland.

While Japan as it existed then was isolationist, racially and ethnically, culturally and every other way, the Ryukyu Kingdom was not.

[21:45:05] They were more open, more multi-cultural, more used to and predisposed to dealing with the outside world and its influences.

Today, just a short ferry ride from the main island they sense, a feeling of that long-gone empire remains. Kumejima is a small island that has been largely untouched by the changes in the world. People farm and fish as they always did.

And the war never came here?

PANKOVICH: No.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

BOURDAIN: This is Bonshura Nagama and Yulhena Tomohiro  Kumejima residents and friends of James.

PANKOVICH: You know, they've been -- they suffered very little damage in the war.

BOURDAIN: And no military bases. No American bases?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

PANKOVICH: Well, up until '72, there was an American base. BOURDAIN: There was.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

PANKOVICH: But then in '72 on the migration, the base was taken away.

BOURDAIN: Now nothing.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

PANKOVICH: Only the Japanese self-defense forces now.

BOURDAIN: What do people do here? Agriculture, growing sugarcane?

PANKOVICH: Tourism.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

PANKOVICH: Fishing.

BOURDAIN: Fishing. Have there been attempts to develop here and have the locals been able to resist that impulse?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

PANKOVICH: They're saying in Kumejima they have rich lives. They have everything they need. They have produce from the land, from the sea. They don't need much else.

BOURDAIN: I've been invited to a beach barbecue, Kumejima style. Go big, or go home. To eat some fresh caught tuna that comes straight from the market to be butchered into sashimi.

Also caught this morning, some sea snails for the grill, and mozuku, seaweed which can be cooked but today is enjoyed raw and local prawns eaten either raw or grilled, or both.

Well, that looks awesome. Off with the head?

UNIDENTIFED MALE: 

BOURDAIN: There's more. Local beef grilled and then tossed with moyashi, seasoned bean sprouts. We will need our energy, it appears.

Tagumi is as old school of martial art as it gets. No ring, no octagon. The rules are simple. Known as Okinawan sumo. It looks easy. It's not. Your hands are wrapped in your opponent's belt. Object is to get him onto his back, both shoulders before he does it to you.

Nice.

You land on your back for even a second, you lose.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There, he got him that.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Awesome.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Would you like to try?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Try it.

BOURDAIN: Yeah, sure.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

BOURDAIN: In the end, it's a less than smoothly executed judo move because Sarugaki  I believe that brings my opponent to the ground.

Thank you for going easy on me. Awesome. Awesome.



[21:53:18]

BOURDAIN: So I've given up many vices in my life. Many shameful, filthy, guilty pleasures that I used to like that I will that I just don't do anymore, cocaine, heroin, prostitutes, the musical styling of Steven Tyler.

I put aside these childish things, as it were. In favor of a newer, more mature me but there is one shameful secret. One thing I just can't give up. One thing I keep coming back to every time I come back to Japan.

One thing that still has an unholy grip on me for no reason that I can gather it's the convenience store formerly of Mere Akron, Ohio, that mutated into a massive Japanese chain behold the wonder that is Lawson. What is it exactly about this place? It's got its tentacles so deep into my heart and myself.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Konnichiwa.

BOURDAIN: Where are you? I know you're around here somewhere. Pillows of love, egg salad from Lawson need a beverage.

[21:55:15] In Naha, you would be advised to avoid International Avenue unless you are homesick for fellow Americans.

Head down the side streets, shuttered storefronts give way to packed Izakayas. A few beers when somebody breakout a shamisen and the good times begin.

People go out here. And after pounding your fists and feeding on a hard meat hooks and shitting out bone chips, you can drop by "Dojo Bar".

James's refuge where some of the island's most esteemed masters and their students come for what's recognized internationally as a cure for all martial-arts related ailments, alcohol.

PANKOVICH: Would you like a drink?

BOURDAIN: I think I would like a beer and maybe a shot of something.

PANKOVICH: Well, I do have a little shot of something.

BOURDAIN: What do you think snake?

PANKOVICH: There have is here sake is like the spirit of Okinawa.

BOURDAIN: Is this sake or whiskey?

PANKOVICH: This is sake. This Okinawa sake with awamori so like a mainland Japanese sake but then they distill it like whiskey so it becomes stronger, little sweet now and now it's aged. It's been in here with the snake maybe three years so all of the essence of the snake has gone into the alcohol.

UNIDENTIFED MALE: 

BOURDAIN: There seems to be a conflict of interest here. You train the karate very seriously.

PANKOVICH: Yeah.

BOURDAIN: I mean should you people be drinking? This is why I'm asking. Where is the point of diminishing returns?

PANKOVICH: Many teachers who don't drink, but Awamori is intrinsic to the Okinawan culture.

BOURDAIN: Right.

PANKOVICH: Most enjoy Awamori as part of their lifestyle, in the same with the karate is part of our lifestyle.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

PANKOVICH: They're saying, please eat. Less talking, more eating.

BOURDAIN: Sashimi of, well, let's just say it's an animal you like.

PANKOVICH: This is horse meat.

BOURDAIN: Horse, wow, all right.

PANKOVICH: 

BOURDAIN: Good, and this?

PANKOVICH: Goat.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 

BOURDAIN: Oh, that's good.

Pure protein for people, who need it and pork belly, some pickled pigs ears, and baked yam. I watch a lot of mixed martial arts. I watch a lot of jujitsu. My daughter trains mostly jujitsu, but some standup. Some of the most exciting fighters that I've seen lately who really show the most heart are women. Is there a future for women in karate?

PANKOVICH: 

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yaya , 

PANKOVICH: He has a female student here tonight.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: .

PANKOVICH: This is Yaya.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: .

PANKOVICH: Tony is asking what's the future for women in traditional karate.

YAYA, KARATE FEMALE STUDENT: When I first started karate, I didn't know this far and now I'm learning karate, as the performance and also in life.

Everything is all about love. And karate is showing you if you have this kind of power and the ability to perfect yourself, your family, you can be really kind. That's about Okinawa. Okinawa people, I think, always have this love to everybody.







