Hey everyone,

We have a few updates this week as well as a re-launch of the company intranet, Jostle, which is long over due. But before I get into those details, here are the updates:

Gillette shot this weekend for their Movember campaign. Be sure to look for the video next month.

The final Undercover shoot of the main series will be next Friday, October 11 at 1pm, with a cellist named Ben Sollee. Should be pretty cool… And then, will we be doing a holiday series? Only the brands know.

Derek Cuculich, our Director of PR & Internal Communication, started yesterday. Be sure to stop by and say hi.

Now onto the intranet.

As we continue to grow, one major key to our success is that communication across all departments is seamless and easy to do. Jostle will allow us to message quickly, store information in an organized and accessible way, and keep everyone up to speed on the latest office updates. And to make it easy, it is fully integrated with Google Apps, so you can login with your Onion username/passwords (Gmail logins for contract employees). You will be receiving an invitation to activate your login today.

Jo Tomaszkowic will be scheduling small-group Jostle training sessions for each department to review the system this week, but so far we have found the site very easy to navigate and it is now the go-to place all company news/company direction updates (sales announcements, hot potatoes, new hires, etc.), performance tracking (what’s trending within Onion content), simplified HR document hosting, and everyone’s favorite, employee profiles and pictures.

When you get a moment today, please activate your account, get your profile set-up, start populating the site with some content, and navigate around, keeping in mind possible enhancements we can make down the road.

Finally, I’d like to thank Katie Pontius, Jenny Crowley and their teams for leading the charge, and getting us to make the much-needed jump to Jostle.

Good afternoon everyone,



Some quick announcements for you this Monday, so lets jump right in.



- Today we saw the launch of Episode 4 of Touch Season, ‘Overconfidence.’ You can check out the latest from Brad Blevins and company here.



- On Tuesday, Tony Wiesman from Digitas will be in the office. We will most likely be in the boardroom around lunch time, so if you’ve worked with Tony, and want to say ‘Hi,’ please feel free to stop in.



- Also on Tuesday, the paperback edition of The Onion Book Of Known Knowledge will be released. Please inform everyone you know that it makes a perfect holiday gift for “fans of bendy books,” as Ben Berkley puts it.



Last Friday, our very own Seth Riess took to the airwaves to let listeners of WGN Radio know that the book will be available. You can listen to his full interview here, and you can also read a review of the book, compliments of Huntington News, here.



- On Wednesday, our second “Bad Pet Owner” video for DSW will be launched in the Men’s Fashion section. Our first video caught some attention from the Huffington Post and Media Bistro, and we hope that the second video can do the same.

Finally, I’m happy to announce that we’ve hired a new staff accountant, Jack Holden. He'll report directly to Kurt Mueller and is set to start on Monday, November 4.



That should do it for the week. One final reminder, if you have questions about the 401k plan that I introduced last week, please contact Katie Pontius (KPontius@TheOnion.com).


Thanks,

Good morning everyone,



We’ve got a busy week ahead, so let’s jump right in:



-       A friendly reminder that this Thursday night is the company’s 25th birthday party at Revolution Brewing Taproom on Kedzie, at 7:00 p.m. Since it’s so difficult to get everyone under one-roof after hours, this gathering will also serve as our holiday party. Trolleys will be leaving from the office at 6:45, and live band karaoke will be on all night, so have your go-to song well-rehearsed. We have a lot to celebrate we’re looking forward to fun night. If you have any questions about the night, logistics, etc., please contact Sona Jones.



-       Today and tomorrow, we welcome our sales teams from New York (Chris St. Onge, Brad Klancik, and Matt McDonagh) and Los Angeles (Andrew Smith and Erin Snee) for a two-day sales summit and training led by Kurt Mueller.



-       In the Onion Labs world, we launched the first-of-three videos for Gillette and their Movember campaign, as well the first-of-two videos for Skyn condoms. Additionally, Episode 5 of Tough Season is scheduled to launch this Thursday. Please take a couple minutes to watch & and share with your social media circles.



New Hires

-       We are welcoming two new hires starting today; Jack Holden is our new Staff Accountant (reporting to Kurt Mueller), and Scott Woolf is our new Sales Planner (reporting to Brooke Ellison). Make sure to stop by and introduce yourselves.

-       Sonja Berger also joined us last week as our new Design Fellow. She is reporting to Kelly Pratt, so please make sure to introduce yourself.

-       The A.V. Club will add two new faces this week, as Sonia Saraiya and John Teti are moving to Chicago. Both have already started with the A.V. Club, Sonia with TV Club and John transitioning from Gameological Society Editor to Senior Editor to the A.V. Club, but they will now working out of our hub.



Goodbye and Good Luck

In other news, Brett Michael (Design Manager) has accepted a new role with a start-up ad agency. His final day with The Onion will be on Tuesday. Brett has been a big contributor to The Onion’s success over the past five years and will be greatly missed. I wish Brett nothing but the best of luck and continued success in his career at his next opportunity.



Also moving on is our Head Writer, Seth Reiss, who has accepted a position as writer on the new Seth Meyer’s show in New York. Seth’s last day with The Onion will be this Friday. As everyone knows, Seth is tremendously talented and a great guy. The Seth Meyer’s show is lucky to have him, and I couldn’t be happier for Seth and his new role.



I think that’s enough for now. Have a great week.



Mike

Good morning,

I wanted to start off by thanking everyone for attending The Onion’s 25th anniversary party last week. A very special ‘thank you’ to Sona Jones for organizing the trollies, scouting the location, and overall, everything she did to make sure we had a fun night. Cheers to another 25 years.

Last Friday, we also announced that our final print editions in Chicago, Milwaukee and Providence, R.I., would be coming to an end, with the last edition running on December 12th. The print edition is a very important part of our history, but we are very excited for the opportunities that come with prioritizing our digital presence.

And now onto some of those opportunities:

This Tuesday and Wednesday, ONN will be shooting its first “Newsroom” episodes since the move to Chicago
From the Labs side, we’ll be shooting for Ritz this week, and on Tuesday we are launching the final installment of Gillette Movember videos.
And finally, the end is in sight for The A.V. Club redesign and CMS projects. The final rounds of testing will begin early this week. If you would like to help out and give some feedback, please contact Jesse Woghin. The goal is to have these products released into the world the week of November 17th.

Have a great week, and again, thank you all for the continued hard work,

Mike

Good afternoon,

I hope you all had a great weekend. We have a lot of things to get into for the week ahead, but I wanted to start with a couple of notes that came from our manager’s meeting last Thursday.

In that meeting I shared that our main goal in 2014 is to ambitiously grow this company, and ultimately double in size.

So many of the things we did in 2013 helped build the foundation we needed to set these goals; completing the move to Chicago, getting our Onion Labs division up-and-running, and recording record-highs in web traffic to name a few. In 2014, we want to continue the momentum we’ve built as a company. To ensure we do that, we will be looking to elevate the structure of our business side by adding more horsepower, as well as investing into our company/people with our new 401k and match programs (.50 cents on the dollar, up to 4% of your compensation).

On the business side of things, we will be posting the following senior level positions soon:
-       Senior Vice President of Product and Technology
-       Vice President of Finance
-       Vice President of Onion Labs
-       To make sure we are properly supporting our growth, and investing in our company, we will also be hiring in other departments as our business dictates.

And as far as the 401k and match programs go, there is representative from Fidelity here the rest of the day that will  go over all of the options their services offer you. As I said a couple weeks ago, we are really excited about this program and the opportunities it brings. The rep will be able to answer any questions or concerns you may have, so please take advantage of this time.

Also, some things you need to do for your Fidelity plan as soon as possible:
- Sign on to www.netbenefits.com and create your log-in.
- Choose your investment plan.
- Establish your beneficiary(ies).

Other odds and ends…..

-       Hopefully you all have checked out the A.V. Club this morning, and noticed that the site has been completely redesigned. This is the first full-on redesign for A.V. Club in five years, and it looks awesome. If you haven’t checked it out yet, stop reading this and go there now! Seriously, I’ll wait. Jesse Woghin, Mike Wnuk, Josh Modell and their teams put a tremendous amount of work into this massive undertaking, so kudos to all involved for making this happen.

-       On Thursday, Brad Blevins is back for the launch of Episode 6 in the Tough Season series.


-       Last Friday, our Onion Labs team completed principle photography for Ritz Crackers “Rappin’ Wrappers” project, and by all accounts, it went very well and should make for a great spot during the holidays.


-       And finally, I wanted to let everyone know that Jenny Nellis, our lead graphics editor, has accepted a role at The Daily Show and her last day will be on Friday the 22nd. Jenny has been a key member of our graphics team for three years, creating countless iconic Onion images and earning much admiration for her role in building a great graphics team. We are sad to see her go, but obviously, very happy for her and her new opportunity. With this, Ben Berkley wanted me to put out the bulletin that we are now searching for someone who can serve as a high school girl in future photos, so if you have any leads, please contact him.


Have a great week,
Mike

Good morning everyone,

A short week ahead, so a short note.

Let’s start with the schedule for the week. We are off both Thursday and Friday for Thanksgiving, so I hope everyone enjoys the long weekend. Eat too much, watch football, have some cocktails, sleep in, whatever you want to do; you all have certainly earned the down time.

Before I look ahead, I want to double-back and just say again how proud I am of Jesse Woghin, Mike Wnuk, Josh Modell, and everyone who put in all of the hard work to make the A.V. Club redesign possible. The site looks great, more importantly, it runs even better, and the traffic numbers are great. There are still a few things being worked on, but this has been a tremendous effort that everyone should be excited about.

The week ahead….

We have some new hires joining our staff this week. Eric Overton, Devin Vaughn and Erika Share are all official employees as of today. They’ve all worked extremely hard, and we’re thrilled to have them on board and working for JJ’s team.

Speaking of JJ’s team (nice segway), we will be launching our first Newsroom piece on Tuesday. And just in time for the holiday travel season, the segment is entitled: FAA Reminds Travelers That Planes Could Crash And Kill You. hot potato?

Also on Tuesday, The previously-mentioned A.V. Club will be launching their ‘Best of Hub,’ presented by our good friends at Geico. So please take a look at that when it’s up, share it with your circles, etc.

That’s it for this week. Again, I hope you all have a great Thanksgiving, and if you are traveling, be safe and remember that planes could crash and kill you.

Mike

I hope you all had a wonderful Thanksgiving holiday, and are ready to get back at it leading into Christmas and New Year’s.

Before I jump into the notes of the week, I have some record traffic numbers to report.

On The Onion, we had a record-high month with 81.9 million page views, and a record day of 6.2 million page views on November 26th. These surpassed previous highs of 73.7m page views (september 2013) and 5.8m page views (August 27, 2013), respectively. Congrats to Will and company on another record month. Super impressive.

The A.V. Club also had an outstanding month with 33.1 million pageviews, and their top article, "So what's good? 33 older shows to binge on over the long weekend," recorded 300k page views.

Moving on, only a couple of quick notes for this week:

-       Let me start by saying that if you haven’t checked out/shared The A.V. Club’s Best of 2013 section, and the two-part Gift Guide, please do so; really great stuff by Josh Modell and company. More best of coverage to follow the rest of the month.

-       I’m happy to announce that we have hired two new staff members; Logan Snyder has accepted the role of Vice President of Finance and Heidi Unkefer has accepted the role of Graphics Editor. I’m very excited to have both Logan and Heidi on board, and they will be joining us in the office in early January.

-       On the ONN side, we have a shoot this week (Wednesday through Saturday) for Tech Trends, our tech news satire series. Please know that at Saturday's shoot, the crew will be using various areas of the office, so as you leave Friday, please straighten up your work space as best as possible.

-     And finally, on Tuesday, Episode 7 of Tough Season should be launching, so be on the lookout for that.


That's it from me. Again, congrats on the huge page view numbers.

Mike

Hey there,

I hope you all had a great weekend.

I wanted to start with a reminder that this Thursday, the 12th, at 5:00 p.m., we will be holding our holiday party at the office. Spouses and significant others are more than welcome…should be a good time.

A couple notes about last week:

Josh, Kyle and the A.V. Club crew kicked off their their 'Best-Of' coverage, to quote Josh, 'with a bang.' The series will continue through December, and some of the 2013 reviews you can look forward to are as follows:
Best of Books: 12/9
Best of Games, Part 1: 12/11
Worst of TV: 12/12
Best of Games, Part 2: 12/12
Best Film Scenes: 12/16
Best of Film (and Ballots): 12/17
Best non-2013 entertainment we discovered in 2013: 12/27

Also, JJ, Brett and company completed shooting our 'Tech Trends' segments. I, along with the filming crew, really appreciate everyone's patience and cooperation around the office during the shoot. I'm sure the minor inconveniences will be well worth it when we see the final product.

Lastly, the final episode of 'Tough Season' (brought to you by Lenovo) launches this Tuesday. Kudos to everyone involved in making this series possible. From pitching the idea, to the filming, to post-production, to the social media support, this was a very difficult project, with many obstacles, but the team effort resulted in a series you should be really proud of.

Have a great week,

Mike

Good morning.

It's our last work week of 2013. Thanks for Steve for the formal closing of the office of the holidays and for the $200 Amazon gift card (if you haven't received it yet, please let Noah Cruickshank know).

A few odds-and-ends:

- Thanks to all who were able to make it to the holiday office party on Thursday night. Good times. And the surprise lived up to the anticipation.

- Congrats to Will and his team for a job well done on the final print edition of The Onion. The cover was a huge hit, and generated a lot of positive media coverage. I think it was the perfect end to the print chapter of our business.

- Also, nice job on  wrapping up "Tough Season." Episode 8 was well-received and gained the attention of Sports Illustrated and NFL Network. That's some great momentum to build from as we (hopefully) approach a second season.

- RITZ's "Rapping Wrappers”, a white-label Onion Labs project, launched last week. If you haven’t checked it out:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pCmPhj3UaF8

Have a great week

Mike

January 14/14


In lieu of the regular weekly note, I want to take a moment to reflect on the past year, talk through what we accomplished, and set our sites on what lies ahead for 2014.

Overall, 2013 was what I would characterize as a “good” year. We made real, tangible progress. We did many individual things better than the year before, from growing traffic on The Onion to rebuilding The AV Club to establishing Onion Labs to refining our sales process. If there was a single shortcoming that would have turned 2013 from good to great, it was that we didn’t make all those positive moves in unison . I’m convinced that in order to take this company to the next level, we have to do exactly that. We need to get all departments running on all cylinders all year.

Despite starting the year with very little momentum, we were able to reach many of our company goals.  Perhaps most importantly, we were able to evolve the company’s business model to better compete in this ever changing media landscape.

Below are just a few of our highlights from last year:

-We consistently set all time traffic records for the company. Led by the Onion’s month-over-month growth, and culminating in 148M PVs and over-25M unique visitors for both brands combines in December. Those numbers exceeded our wildest traffic goals.

-For both AV Club and Onion, we were able to add to our talented creative staffs.

-Our Product and Tech team launched the A.V. Club redesign and made headway on building an infrastructure that will support multiple sites and new verticals.

-The video team supported a full year of Onion Labs projects and has recently focused on creating a sustainable production model for editorially-driven videos, highlights by The Film Standard series, as well as the return of ONN, capping the year with the brilliant “Stop-and-Kiss” report.

- For sales, we learned how to sell content services (Onion Labs) and had a very strong first-half of the year. That revenue was able to support company-wide initiatives.

In 2014, we will build off this positive momentum, and, by year’s end, we will have achieved the following:

-           Created new-and-innovative video products that will see our editorially- driven videos hit an all-time high for views

-           Launch new sites/verticals. Either with advertisers, media partners, or with our own capital

-           Build a better sales organization and structure suited for broader content and media sales

-           Establish Onion Labs as a bonafide creative agency

-          Build a better internal support system to make all of those functions run smoothly


To ensure we hit these goals, it’s paramount that we invest in creative ventures that are true to our sensibilities, as well as adding key new hires that will provide leadership and experience as our company grows.

This process is already underway, as we have recently hired a new Vice President of Finance, Logan Snyder, and a new Senior Vice President of Product & Technology, Tim Breslin.

Before joining us, Snyder worked as the Director of Finance for Human Care Systems, Inc. in Boston, and Breslin was the Vice President of Product & Technology at Poptent Inc., a pioneer in the video crowdsourcing space. Both will   start in the office in early-February, and I am confident that they will be solid additions to our management team. We will have a deeper management team than we have ever had before.

We are also getting close on the Vice President of Onion Labs position. We’ve had numerous talented people interview for this spot and are hoping to have our new Labs boss in place sometime in February. We have a lot of opportunities ahead of us this year and we want the new team in place asap.

Also, we are in the process of adding to our sales staff so we can increase the number of chances that are coming our way, as well as working directly with brands for future Labs projects.  We are currently interviewing a number of  experienced sales reps to help us build out this new side of our business.

Finally, will also continue to build out our editorial, product/technology and support teams to keep up with the growth.

If we’re able to capitalize on all the groundwork we laid in 2013, and can successfully increase the expectations we have for each other, I have no doubt that we’ll be able to double in size and make 2014 the most successful year in the history of the company.

Mike

Hello everyone,

Last week in my 2013 wrap-up/2014 kickoff letter, I talked about how the foundation we built last year, along with the addition of key leadership, will lead us to a big year. I’m happy to report that our sales team, video team, The Onion and The A.V. Club editorial teams are off to great starts, and two of our new hires will be joining the fold soon. We also have a couple of HR-related items that I want to let you know about at the end of this note, so let’s get into it:

Our sales team closed the first installment of a deal with Mike’s Hard Lemonade, where our Labs team will create can designs for the Mike’s HARDER brand, as well as partner with them for an event at SXSW this year. Special thanks to Baomy Wehrle, Sona Jones and Angie Gaffney for all of their hard work getting these closed.

Our video team released two stellar videos last week; ‘Hundreds Feared Dead In Coors Light Party Train Crash’ and a very nice, some may say bizarre ‘commercial’ for McDonalds. Both extremely funny. Coors Light even played along, and the McDonalds spot got picked-up by a lot of sites, including the ever-reputable Perez Hilton.com (Read here).

Our Onion Editor-In-Chief Will Tracy did an interview with Index Universe regarding the market, investor tips, and various other financial topics The Wall Street Journal’s Market Watch picked up. And, as some of you may have seen on Jostle, The A.V. Club’s very-talented Laura M. Browning’s write-up on ‘Her’ (Her Is Believable Not Because of Love or Technology, but High-Waisted Pants) was featured on The Atlantic.

I’m also excited to let you know that our new Vice President of Finance, Logan Snyder, will be starting in the office with us on Monday (1/27), and our Senior Vice President of Product and Technology, Tim Breslin, will join us on Monday, February 3. Both really smart guys that will help our team. I’m really excited for everyone to meet them.

On a HR front, our annual benefits renewal is scheduled for February 1st. Open enrollment is offered once a year, and gives you the opportunity to enroll, or make changes to, your existing benefits package. Katie Pontius will be sending out the appropriate paper work this week, and if you have any questions, just drop her note.

And finally, we will be conducting performance reviews coming up in early February. Your managers will be in touch soon to set-up your review time.

Great start to the year. Let’s keep it going.

Mike

Good morning,

A few updates for this week.

Logan Snyder, our VP of Finance, starts today. When you get a chance, please introduce yourself to him.

In the next two weeks, Tim Breslin, Senior Vice President of Product, and Kristina Craig, Ad Operations Manager, will start.

In order to appropriately accommodate, these new hires and a few more that are in the works, we need to shuffle a few departments from one section of the office to another. This week, your managers will be letting you know what your new department seating chart will look like. The move is currently planned for this Thursday. Details of the move will follow fromNoah. If you have any questions about the new seating arrangements, or need anything to make your move easier, please let your manager know.

I'm happy to announce that our Onion Labs team has been tabbed by AXE to produce some social content for the SuperBowl. Details are still being worked out, but a big win for our Labs team. Should be a fun partnership.

Finally, a reminder that our annual benefits renewal is scheduled for February 1st. Open enrollment allows full-time employees to enroll or make changes to their existing benefits package. The enrollment forms were sent out last week via Echosign and are due by Wednesday (1/29). If you do not submit updated enrollment forms, you will be automatically re-enrolled in your existing coverage plans. If you have any questions about this, please contact Katie Pontius.

Last thing; thank you to everyone for their patience and understanding last week as our ONN team was shooting various videos. There were a lot of extra bodies and activity around the office, but I'm confident that the quality videos will be worth the inconveniences.

Thanks,
Mike

Good morning.

Great last week. Nice to see all the new acquisitions in the office (Logan Snyder, Tim Breslin, David Burns and Ashlee Avick).

Today, I’m happy to welcome another new member to our team, Kristina Craig, who joins us from the Tribune, as a new Ad Ops Manager. She will work for Logan Snyder. It will also be the first day for East Coast Account Exec Anne McWilliams, who will work in our NY office.

I want to take a minute and recognize all of those from Onion Labs that worked on the with HUGE and Audi to make their Super Bowl Snapchat campaign a success. Angie Gaffney, Brooke Ellison, Bob Marshall and Dan Davis did an outstanding job, on a very tight timeline, and their efforts got a little press in Ad Week.(http://www.adweek.com/news/technology/audi-and-onions-snapchat-super-bowl-goes-quick-laughs-155433).

This week our team will be in Los Angeles shooting a spot for Claritin that will feature Minnie Driver.

The A.V. Club is about to start production on their Pioneering series, sponsored by Honda. It’s our most ambitions travel/music/video series to date, with the videos set to air in late March or early April. More details to come on this, but it’s a very cool concept, that I’m confident we’ll execute flawlessly.

This Wednesday & Thursday, we will have a carpenter in the studio building some walls for the Undercover area, to give it more of an old-school claustrophobic look. That series should start shooting this month or early March.

Last week, the Video team launched a writer fellowship program as Will Feinstein started last Monday. This six-month program is a derivative of the Onion Writing Fellowship, and aims to bring talented video artists to work with us, build their skills and help us grow our network of video professionals.

Finally, we have a one-day shoot in the studio this Tuesday for a video that is being sponsored by Late Night With Seth Meyers. I’m sure Seth Reiss & Bob Marshall will enjoy promoting it.

Yesterday’s NewFronts event was a true success for The Onion. While our event wasn’t officially sanctioned, we drew in a sizable audience, entertained them and dominated the press. Our unique approach set us apart in the digital advertising industry, putting The Onion (and our in house agency, Onion Labs) on the minds of all advertisers.

Many thanks to all of you for making this happen. In my nine + years at the company, I’ve never seen better collaboration among all of our departments to support our business.

In case you haven’t been Jostling, here are a few articles about our event:

America's Finest NewFront: The Onion Bares Its Teeth At BuzzFeed and UpWorthy - Ad Age
Wooing Advertisers by Using Laughs - New York Times
The Onion’s NewFronts pitch: ‘We’re funny and millennials like us’ – Digiday
The Onion Takes On Buzzfeed with Clickhole.com – MediaPost News
Enter the Clickhole - Mashable

A pretty impressive list.

We’re going to build off our NewFronts momentum and invest in a Business-to-Business (B2B) Marketing department. Led by Derek Cuculich, this newly hired team will focus on further defining Onion Lab’s presence in the industry through outreach to advertisers/agencies.  The team will be comprised of three new employees (starting tomorrow) — Steven Giannoni, Elizabeth Dewart, and Noah Bass — and Scott Woolf, who will be making the move from our Sales Planning team.
 Thanks,

Mike

Good morning,

We’re off to a great start to the year. Exactly as we’ve planned.

For starters, we’ve eclipsed our sales goal for the first quarter of the year and are well on our way to double in size.

We’ve also acquired several talent people who will help us achieve our ambitious goals.

To that end, we have a few people starting this week:

- Rick Hamann, Senior Vice President of Onion Labs

- Christa Crowe, VP of Strategic Partnership

- Katy Yeiser, Associate Producer (Promoted from contract to FT)

- Ryan Natoli, Associate Producer (Promoted from contract to FT)

Also starting this week is our second Onion Video fellow, Leo Garcia.

Keeping with the Onion Video team, they will be shooting Onion Talks (brought to you by HBO's Silicon Valley) in our studio this Wednesday and Thursday.

This coming weekend our Onion Labs team will be heading out West to shoot a spot for Adobe starring Super Bowl Champion Seattle Seahawk Richard Sherman and Modern Family's Eric Stonestreet. Should be fun.

And one final staff update; Onion Labs Producer Angie Gaffney will be taking a sabbatical from the company starting March 21st. She is going to produce an off-broadway show in New York, and I know I speak for everyone in saying we wish her nothing but success.

That's it from me. Have a great week.

Mike McAvoy

Good morning everyone,

In the past couple of weeks, The Onion editorial team and The Onion video team have been combining their creative efforts and brainstorming on the creation of a new, yet-to-be-named new site (current working titles are "Stufffeed" and "ClickHole").

This new site, which will be a parody of the Buzzfeed, UpWorthy and other new media sites, marks the first time we have our Onion editorial teams collaborating on bringing a new project to life.

Currently Jack Link's Beef Jerky is being courted to finance the site, and if signed up, we'd launch on June 12th to coincide with National Jerky Day. If Jack Link's decides to pass on the idea, we still plan to move forward with the concept as we love this idea.

I will keep you up-to-date as things progress.

Switching gears, I want to congratulate the AV Club for the debut of  'A.V. Club Live' last Wednesday. A great turnout, and an even better program. Well done to everyone involved in putting that show together.

This past weekend our Onion Labs team was in California shooting a spot for Adobe that featured Super Bowl Champion Richard Sherman and Modern Family's Eric Stonestreet. By all accounts the effort was a success. Both Sherman and Stonestreet loved the script and were a lot of fun to work with. It should make for a great finished product.

Finally, on Monday evening, The Onion will be teaming with mike's HARDER Lemonade at South By Southwest to present the "RELOAD" party. Sona Jones has worked tirelessly to put this party, along with various line stunts, together. To keep up with what Sona has been doing for the HARDER brand at SXSW, follow mike's HARDER on Twitter (@mhl or @HARDER).

Have a great week,
Mike McAvoy

Good morning.

I hope everyone had a great weekend.

On Friday we kicked off our plan for the 2014 NewFronts by introducing The First-Annual Gala of Awareness (of Advertising). It is another initiative that will see The Onion editorial team, The Onion video team and Onion Labs team combine their creative efforts to take aim at the advertising industry during the Interactive Advertising Bureau's (IAB) NewFronts week.

A quick history lesson; in 2008 Digitas introduced the first NewFronts event/conference designed to bring together content creators with brands and digital buyers. Think the digital world's version of the television industry's Up Fronts. For the past two years the IAB has served as the NewFronts operational agency.

This year we made an honest attempt to be a part of the IAB's program, but were only offered less-than-ideal time slots to participate. In response we felt that the only right thing to do was go rogue, or as our SVP of Onion Labs Rick Hamann said, "go punk rock on them."

The First-Annual Gala for Awareness (of Advertising) will be The Onion's opportunity to introduce advertisers to our biggest slate of programming and offerings in the company's history. We plan on blowing this event out in complete Onion-fashion. We will include a keynote address on irrelevant, non-issues that affect the advertising industry, like, "Why Ads Can't Appeal to Basic Human Intelligence Anymore," all the while showcasing the talents and capabilities our company has to offer.

There will be more on this program in the weeks to come, but I couldn’t be more excited for this. Last week it was "Stufffeed/ClickHole," this week The First-Annual Gala for Awareness (of Advertising). When the talented people we have in our building collaborate, brilliant things can be created.


Have a great week,

Mike McAvoy

Good morning everyone,

This morning The Onion and A.V. Club will be officially announcing 'The First Annual 26th Annual Comedy Festival' taking place June 12-14 at the historic Athenaeum Theatre.  The line-up for the three days of comedy is stacked. Comedy Bang! Bang! (6/12), Tig Notaro (6/13) and Marc Maron (6/14) are the headliners. Not only will this be a tremendous showcase, it’s also an opportunity for The Onion and A.V. Club to grow our Chicago presence. Josh Modell will be sending an email later today with details on how our staff can purchase tickets.

Our video team has some fun projects in the works. They will be releasing a new Onion Talks episode entitled, "Turn Your Photos Into Music, If You Want To Do That For Some Reason," in addition to working on post-production for YouTube's April Fools' Day prank.

Last week, our Onion Labs and A.V. Club teams wrapped up two shoots in Detroit and Nashville for Honda Pioneering. This eight-part series will launch on The A.V. Club on April 7. The early feedback on this program has been overwhelmingly positive, and I'm confident it will result in another successful AV Club franchise.

Finally, our product team needs everyone's help. They are now using Optimizely, an A/B multivariate testing tool that allows us to test (and/or validate) design changes using a small subset of our traffic. Optimizely lets us give our readers the best user experience based on date-driven results. Our product teams needs your help to come up with tests (i.e. ever wonder if people click on the Review widget's tabs on The A.V. club homepage? Think we'd get more clicks if links were blinking and pulsing?).


Complete this Google form to submit your request /test. Thank you in advance for your participation. It is greatly appreciated.


Have a great week,

 Mike McAvoy

 Good morning everyone,

This week our Onion video and Onion Labs’ teams have their hands full with April Fool’s Day executions. We have some of our staff in San Bruno, California, at the headquarters of YouTube, working diligently to execute another epic prank. We will also be launching an April Fool’s Day campaign for DSW by introducing the newest breakthrough in footwear, “The Monopod.”

Today marks the official start of Clickhole.com for the product team. Over the next 10 weeks this project will be the team's main focus, so please be mindful of that when requesting design and/or tech resources for other things.

The product team is still looking for suggestions for A/B tests. Please complete this form and share your ideas. The results of the initial tests will be shared later this week.

We have one new hire to announce today. Matt Cragnolin joins us as Onion Labs Art Director and he report to our SVP of Onion Labs, Rick Hamann. Matt will be joined by a copy writer, David Schermer (starts in two weeks). As you can see, we’re starting to build a Labs centric team which will dramatically increase our capacity and advertising expertise.

On Thursday afternoon, Bob Channick, media reporter from the Chicago Tribune, will be dropping by the office. He has noticed an increase in Onion-related activity with our recent new hires, and events like the Mike’s HARDER party at SXSW and the comedy festival. He is interested in learning more about our business and what we are trying to achieve for a potential story.

Bob's visit is a tremendous opportunity to showcase the positive momentum we are building as a company.

The kickoff for The Onion and A.V. Club’s “1st Annual 26th Annual Comedy Festival” got off to a great start last week. The announcement was picked up by numerous sites including SplitSider, Nerdist and Time Out Chicago.

Last week’s Onion Talks “This App Turns Your Photos into Music If You Want to Do That For Some Reason,” was brilliant and gained some well-deserved recognition. NBC News (The Onion’s Fake ‘PicSong’ App is Pitch-Perfect), Yahoo! (The Onion’s Fake PicSong App Is a Perfect Parody of Pointless Apps) and Gizmodo (The Onion’s Useless App Pitch Is Perfect) were just some of the sites to share the video. Some might say that it was perfectly done.

Finally, we were named a finalist for four Digiday Publishing Awards:
- Best Branded Content Integration by a Publisher (YouTube's April Fool's Day)
- Best Editorial Achievement by a Publisher ("This What World Like Now")
- Best Use of Native Advertising (Tough Season)
- Best Use of Social Media by a Publisher (Diamond Joe Biden: Presented by The Onion)

Congratulations to everyone on the nominations. I have all the confidence in the world that we will take home all four categories.

Last thing, I promise, is that next week we will formally recap our performance in the first quarter. But two teasers noteworthy of highlighting right now: The AV Club shattered their previous all-time traffic high in March (and has a day left) and our sales team, led by Kurt Mueller, had it’s largest quarter ever, too.

 Remarkable accomplishments and exactly what we needed to start the year.

More to follow soon.

Mike McAvoy

If it’s a ClickHole update you are looking for, you’ve come to the right place.

As you recall, ClickHole.com will be a new vertical under the Onion, Inc. banner that will parody Buzzfeed, UpWorthy and other 'new media' sites. The project will be brought to life by Jack Link's Beef Jerky and marks the first time our Onion editorial team and Onion video team will be collaborating on a new entity.

I’m happy to announce our ClickHole editorial team is taking shape. Onion senior writer Jermaine Affonso will have the honor of being the site’s first editor. We have also hired two talented associate editors; Onion writer at large Jamie Brew and ONN contributor Daniel Kibblesmith. They both start on April 21. We have also hired former Onion graphics intern Nicole Antonuccio as ClickHole’s graphics editor, and she starts today.

Our product and technology team have been working tirelessly on their end to make sure that ClickHole is ready to launch on June 12th (National Beef Jerky Day, of course). Last week they finished the first-of-five sprints that resulted in a generic CMS (based off the new A.V. Club CMS), mocks of the desktop and mobile homepage, and a mobile article page. This week, product and tech will meet with our ClickHole editorial team to review ClickHole branding and additional design mocks.

It’s great to see the collaboration across departments and the progress being made on this new vertical.

A couple more notes:
-    Today is the launch of Honda’s “Pioneering” on The A.V. Club. The entire A.V. Club team worked extremely hard on making this eight-part series possible. The first episode, which you can watch here, showcases The Mountain Goats paying tribute to The Ramones by covering, “Danny Says.” This project is a prime example of our team bringing a unique idea to life for an advertiser; that fits in perfectly with The A.V. Club's sensibilities. Great job to everyone involved in putting this together.
-    Chris Roe, Onion Labs Creative Director, and David Schermer, Onion Labs Copy Writer, both start in the office today.
-    Also starting today is Public Relations Intern, Rachel Marciano.

Next week, an update on our NewFronts program, “Blessed Are The Advertisers: A Gala Celebrating Mankind’s Noblest Pursuit.”

Mike McAvoy

It’s NewFronts week. We’re really excited about the program our team has put together. Below are some of the things that will be happening at “Blessed are the Advertisers; A Gala Celebrating Mankind’s Noblest Pursuit” on Tuesday afternoon in New York:

-    Kickoff speech by Director of Advertising for FedEx and 2013 Advertising Man of the Year, Steve Pacheco.
-    Welcoming address by Regis Philbin
-    Today Now’s Jim Haggerty introducing some new video offerings. A couple examples: a parody of New York Times ‘Vows,’ titled “Who’s Fucking?” and a Cosmos parody, “Wonderverse.”
-    Tough Season 2 promo
-    Clickhole.com announcement

This event will serve as a launching pad for Onion Labs, and a showcase for Onion, Inc.’s full-range of advertising capabilities.

More on ClickHole.com
- Last week, ClickHole had some productive collaboration between editorial and product and tech. This week they will be finalizing branding and working on some sample content. If you have a minute, feel free to stop by the product area and take a look at the inception deck and current mocks.

A couple A.V. Club notes:
-    Undercover will be shooting today around 12:30 p.m. with Lydia Loveless, who will be covering Echo & The Bunnymen’s “The Killing Moon.” You’re welcome to watch.
-    Some more Undercover news. GEICO recently signed on to sponsor the series. Always happy to see a national sponsor underwrite one of our series.
-    A new episode of Pioneering launches today with Those Darlins covering Dolly Parton. Check it out, share it with your friends, post it everywhere. Here it is: www.avclub.com/pioneering
-    On Thursday, Ignatiy Vishnevetsky joins The A.V. Club crew as a new staff writer. You may remember him as a co-host of At The Movies on PBS. Stop by and say hi.

One new staff members to announce:
-    Anna Doherty will be starting on May 5th as our new Human Resources/Recruiting Coordinator. She will be reporting to Katie Pontius.

Finally, we have added a lot of new faces over the past couple of months. Let’s all take a moment on Friday to get to know them better with a company happy hour, from 4:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m., on the roof (weather permitting). I look forward to seeing everyone there.

Mike McAvoy

Today marks the official one-month mark until National Beef Jerky day. That means one month until the launch of ClickHole.com, in partnership with Jack Links. Jermaine Affonso and his team, along with Tim Breslin and the product and tech team, have made some tremendous progress. If you have not had a chance to stop by the product and tech area to look at the ClickHole mock-ups, please do so. Everyone involved in this project is doing some great work.

- The fifth episode of “Pioneering” launches today. It features Texas folk artist Shakey Graves and his tribute to psychedelic-rock group Jefferson Airplane. You can check out the latest episode, as well as the previous four, here:www.avclub.com/pioneering.

- On Wednesday, The A.V. Club, along with The Hideout, announced that this year’s A.V. Fest will be on September 5th and 6th.  I’m happy to announce that the early bird two-day tickets have already sold out. The line-up for this event will be announced on May 28th.

- Our new Director of Analytics, Greg Cochara, starts in the office today. He will report to VP of Finance, Logan Snyder.

- Finally, thanks to everyone who took the time last Monday to listen Shawn Amos speak and share some of his music. As Steve mentioned, the next speaker in our series is Brad Keywell, co-founder of Groupon. When we have a date and time locked in for Brad, Noah Cruickshank will let you know.

Mike McAvoy

I hope everyone had a nice Memorial Day weekend.

We are about two weeks away from the launch of ClickHole.com, and we have a couple updates:

- The ClickHole editorial team is happy to welcome three talented writers, Matt Powers, Adam Levine and Noah Prestwich. Adam’s first day is today, while on Matt and Noah both join the office on Monday, June 2nd. The team has also added Dan Davis as the site's Digital Producer and he will officially start on June 2nd, as well.

- The product team is on pace for the June 12th ClickHole launch. They, along with the editorial staff, are in their final two-week sprint. The focus of this final push is on video content and a polish of the site.

The product and technology team has also been running some A/B tests via Optimizely on The Onion’s share tools. The first test was to add share tools to the bottom of articles and vary the sizes. The larger icons won with approximately 115% more social shares across devices and 580% more social shares on mobile devices. These are great results, and we will make the changes to the site early this week.

The A.V. Club’s new copy editor, Caitlin PenzyMoog, starts today. She immediately joins the short list of coolest names in our building.

Congratulations to our Onion video team for another successful shoot last week. The crew shot four episodes of Onion Talks and some more Tech Trends segments.

Finally, this Friday is the start of our official Summer Hours. If you have your work complete, and it’s cleared with your manager, you can leave the office at 2:30 p.m. on Fridays throughout the summer.

Mike McAvoy

Good morning.

Our internet connection isn’t working this morning. So please hold off on heading to work until we know it’s fixed. Or work from home for the day if that’s cool with your manager.

More updates to follow.

Hi all,

Hope everyone had a great weekend.

As I mentioned last week, we’ll be hosting an all company happy hour this Wednesday at 4pm on the roof.  Over the past 6 months we’ve worked hard in pursuit of our collective goals. We’ve undergone a lot of change, and continue to progress and grow as a result. We are on our way to do great things. To that end, I hope you all can join us on Wednesday to recognize our efforts and accomplishments to date.

Weekly Video Launch Schedule

M

7/28

1.     CH

Hey, Watch My Stuff

T

7/29

2.     ONN



3.     CH



4.     CH

Tech Trends: New Kindle Helps Readers Show Off By Shouting Title Of Book Loudly And Repeatedly

Watch A 20-Year-Old Experience The Exact Moment That McDonald’s Stops Being A Treat

Man Locks Himself In Hot Car To Prove That Babies And Dog Are Cowards

W

7/30

5.     CH

People Drinking Full Glasses Of Water Compilation 2014

TH

7/31

6.     CH

7.     CH



8.     Onion

Crazy Street Fight (WARNING: Violence)

Amazing! Watch How This One Startup Is Changing The Way We Get Around

Special Report 730: Maybelline Introduces New Ideal-Woman Rubber Mask To Use In Place Of Make-Up

F

8/1

9.     Onion

The Onion Review 730: Headline TBD



Department Updates

Product / Tech:

As many of you know, this Wednesday marks the last day for Mike Wnuk. After 4 good years with The Onion, Mike has decided to move on and try his hand in the start up world. Mike has played an important role in accelerating his team’s performance and will be missed. We wish him the best.

 We’ve officially hired a new Developer, Andrew Kos, starting Monday 8/11. Andrew will report directly to Tim Breslin.

Onion Labs:

Our Labs team is about to go into full production mode, with campaigns being shot for Panera Bread, Febreze, Burger King, more Bud Light.

 A.V. Club:

 We’ve officially kicked off the A.V. Club Fellowship Program. Katie Rife will join us in the role of AVC Fellow on Monday 8/11. She will report directly to Sean O’Neal.


 Onion Video:

 The ONN Production and Post staff will be on hiatus starting next week. The ONN writing staff is also out next week and will return the week of August 11th.


HR:

On Tuesday 7/29, we will be hosting our 5th internship program event: Q&A with The Onion Writers. This is a great way for the interns to get to know our talented editorial staff and get a first hand account of what it’s like to be an Onion writer.

Thanks,

Mike

Hello,

Over the past several months, we’ve spent significant time and effort determining our optimal structure for continued growth. Part of this effort includes hiring new leaders, including a VP of Production, a VP of Consumer Marketing, and a VP of Accounts. It also means investing in more new positions, such as a Casting Director, Production/Studio Manager, Post-Production Manager, PR/Social Labs Strategist and others.

We are happy to announce that three of these positions have already been filled:

George Zwierzynski will be our VP of Production. Over the past couple of years, George has helped out on quite a few Onion and Labs productions as a director, editor, and producer. He’s a talented guy and we’re excited to have him in this new role.

Joe Czerw has been hired to fill the new Production/Studio Manager position, and he will begin full time on November 1.

Eric Munn has been hired to fill the new Onion Labs PR/Social Strategist role and will begin full time in September.

We’re also adding clarity to our structure by ensuring that job titles are more consistent and clear. To that end, we’ve added the title of VP to the titles of our department heads that didn’t already include them: Cole Bolton (VP, Editor), Josh Modell (VP, Editor-In-Chief), JJ Shebesta (VP, Creative Director), Chris Roe (VP, Creative Director), and Katie Pontius (VP, Human Resources).

We’re also adding the title of Director to those who help the VPs lead/run teams.

Please see attached org chart for an overview of all departments.

Overall, we expect that these changes will help us continue to grow and allow us to create, market, and sell more smart, high-quality content.

Thanks,
Mike

November 14/14


To: Onion Staff
From: Steve Hannah
Re: Bloomberg article


By now most of you have probably seen an article that ran on the Bloomberg wire last night. It reported that The Onion had hired a financial advisor and was exploring a possible sale.

Here’s the real story:

Yes, we have a financial advisor. This is not new. We have had one helping us for most of the past 10 years. Whenever the media market is strong and the company is growing, we get inquiries from interested parties about everything from investment in to a possible purchase of The Onion.

We have been in a nice growth mode for the past 18 months, and that never fails to   attract attention.

Our financial advisor handles inbound inquiries and also has been actively looking for the ideal partner who wants to put money in the company and accelerate its growth. It takes capital to grow a company and there is no better time to raise it than when your brand(s) and business are going strong.

In the course of looking to raise money, our advisors got a lot of interest from media companies and investment firms. Predictably, their interest ranged from making an investment in The Onion to acquisition of the company. This is the normal course of events in the capital-raising world.

We have had follow-up conversations with numerous parties in recent months. Our advisors will continue to have those conversations and, hopefully, they will lead to the right outcome.

Our senior management team is aware of these plans and plays a role in the process, giving us valuable input into where investment dollars could be put to work. They are positively excited about finding a partner who believes in our brands and our people, and they are eager to get the sort of investment that will allow us to fund new initiatives across the company.

This could be a good time for us to take on an investor, but it has to be the right one.

I will keep you apprised as things unfold.

Hi all,

To achieve the growth we are capable of, we will need to continue to invest in the current employees that exceed expectations while hiring new employees that can help further our momentum.  With that in mind, I am pleased to announce the following:

We are adding two new Senior Vice President positions: SVP of Content & SVP of Marketing. Both will report to me.

Rick Hamann, our SVP of Content, will be taking on oversight of all of our creative teams: The Onion (which oversees ClickHole), AV Club, Onion Labs and a newly created, but not yet filled, head of development position. In his new role, Rick will ensure that we develop the ideas (new sites, verticals, video series, etc) necessary for our ambitious growth plans. Please congratulate Rick on his promotion. I couldn’t be more excited to have him in this role as he’s already made a huge impact in his 8 months at the Onion.

Hassan Ali Khan will join us as the new SVP of Marketing on Monday January 5th. Hassan will split his time between Chicago & New York and will oversee our efforts in consumer marketing, B2B/PR, and platform development. This new role will ensure that we have the resources necessary to grow our audience and advertising partnerships. Hassan comes to us from Anomaly, an international marketing firm where he served as the Director of Data Strategy. Prior to his role at Anomaly, Hassan was the Head of Insights & Analytics for Vice Media.

We are also thrilled to have hired Chris Sprehe, as our VP of Product/Technology. His first day in the office will be Wednesday December 3rd. Chris has over a decade experience in engineering/tech related roles, including working at the Tribune, where he helped to transform the editorial process with a custom CMS and publishing platform. He was also responsible for developing the system serving all of Tribune's video content. In his latest role at DevMynd, an agile software shop in Chicago, Chris led teams and managed projects as the Principal Consultant.

Chris will be a member of the Senior Management team, and oversee all members of the Product team, working especially closely with Chris Sinchok and Kelly Pratt, who have been doing an excellent job leading the team. Kelly has also been promoted to Product Design Lead. Please congratulate her on a much-deserved promotion.

I failed to mention in my previous note, that we have hired MaryBeth Searly as our Production Project Manager and David Kim as our Post Production Manager. They both have great production experience and these new roles will help us further invest in our in-house production team. MaryBeth and David will report to George Z.

This past week, much of the senior management team was off-site meeting with a few potential investors. The investor courting process will continue over the next few months, and we’ll continue to update everyone as we know more. The senior management team continues to be optimistic that we’ll find the right partner who believes in our people and our brand.

Now onto the weekly update.

Happy Thanksgiving! The office is officially closed on Thursday and Friday, and we encourage everyone to take a half day on Wednesday, as long as it’s good with their manager, and/or join us for a company hosted lunch of tacos, chips and salsa.

Hi all,

Hope everyone had a great Thanksgiving and enjoyed the short break.

We have our company holiday party this Thursday at Tippling Hall from 6 to 9. If you haven’t had a chance to RSVP, please do so. It should be a great time.

Weekly Videos:

ONION VIDEO/ONN
TBD Owners Box Idea (Thursday)

CLICKHOLE
Yesterday's 'Daily Show' Nailed It (Tuesday)
Watch What Happens When We Drop Wallets In Front Of Homeless People (Wednesday)
Worst Music Video Ever? (Wednesday)
All Religions Are Beautiful (Thursday)
If Darth Vader Was Your Table (Thursday)

LABS
Tough Season (Friday)
Overstock (Friday)

Department Updates

Labs
The Labs team is finishing up their first work on Overstock.com, as well as getting ready to shoot H&R Block and Whole Foods.

Product
Chris Sprehe, our new VP of Product, starts Wednesday, December 3rd. Please make sure to stop by and introduce yourselves.

Account Management
We’ve officially hired our new VP of Accounts, Julie Scott. Julie is currently VP, Group Account Director at Digitas and brings a wide variety of agency account management experience to the table. Her start date is set for Jan. 12th and she will report to Kurt Mueller.

Welcome back.

I hope you all enjoyed your holiday break.

In lieu of the weekly note, I wanted to take a few moments to recap 2014 and outline our biggest priorities for 2015.

In early 2014, we set forth ambitious goals with a clear plan as to how we could achieve them.  The key tenets of the plan were:
Add key hires with extensive experience in growing media companies.
Empower top performers to take on additional responsibility.
Align all departments to move collectively and unapologetically toward our goal.
Hold each other accountable in reaching our collective goal.
I am proud to say our plan was followed, making 2014 one of the most successful years in the history of the company.

A few interesting facts from the past year:
We hired 54 new Onion, Inc. employees.
Over 20 employees earned promotions and took on more responsibility.
We established a Senior Management team that was in charge of managing the business by fully aligning our efforts to grow our audience and to better monetize our audience.
We held each other accountable, and as a result, achieved many of our department goals.
Most importantly, these efforts helped furthered building our culture of collaboration and excellence.

I know that if I call out individual achievements, I’ll neglect to mention many of the individuals who make this company what it is today. But with that being said, I do want to call attention to three people whose leadership in 2014 was instrumental in building the Onion for the years ahead.

The first is Katie Pontius. All of you know her, and for most of you, she was your initial point of contact when you joined the Onion. During the course of 2014, Katie and her team hired 54 FT employees. And not only were each of them qualified, they fit our culture. Katie's efforts included building a new senior management team, as well as poaching top talent from other media companies.

The second is Kurt Mueller, who rebuilt our sales force to support a new media company. He made astute moves, hiring an advertiser direct sales team and an inside sales team, and laid out a regimented process to manage the sales process. His efforts paid off, as we signed 90% more business than we did a year ago.  The best part is that his team is just getting going. Next year will be even more promising for our sales team and Onion Labs.

The third is Rick Hamann. Rick made the vision of Onion Labs come to life, and hence it grew substantially. In a matter of months, he was able to build out a legitimate ad agency within the walls of the Onion. In additional to creating smart advertising content, Rick and his team have worked with our editorial staffs to create the best sponsored content possible for our clients, our audience, and our brands.

If I were more even long-winded, I would also mention the accomplishments of Josh Modell, Cole Bolton, Logan Snyder, George Zwierzynski, and their respective teams, who all had impactful years at the Onion.

So that’s 2014. And 2015 is even more promising, knowing that we already have the people in place to realize our vision.

This year, we will continue to focus on growing our audience and monetizing it even more effectively through the growing capabilities of Onion Labs. We will launch more new verticals and sites (a la Clickhole), in addition to growing the Onion, AV Club & Clickhole. We will also begin to diversify and explore other business models beyond advertising. One of these new business models is building a studio business within Onion, where we underwrite the production of ideas that we’re excited about for web series or TV shows.

We’ll launch a video hub in Q2, which will include the best of Onion, Inc video content as well as new video show and series that we can incubate. This site will allow us to develop and produce ideas that we like, but don’t fit within our existing sites. A new video site is an important initiative, and you’ll be hearing more from Rick Hamann about our development plans in the next few weeks.

We’re also redesigning the Onion.com, which will modernize the parody and provide our editorial team with new content types. The redesign will also complete the multi-year project to power all of our properties from one CMS. It will now be easier to maintain the sites and add increase functionality.

Other notable initiates include an investment in content marketing for our editorial and labs content. Hassan Ali Khan, our first SVP of Marketing, begins today and will head up this effort. We will focus far more resources on marketing the content that we create.

That’s the plan. And thanks for making 2014 such an impressive year.

Appreciatively,

Mike

Hi all,

Hope you had a nice weekend.

Last week, the Onion hosted a happy hour at CES in Las Vegas. The event was very well attended, and we were able to generate a few new Onion Labs leads. Thanks to Lizzie Dewart & Brooke Carney for organizing and working the event.

Back in Chicago, we also kicked off the rotational development process, in which we’re looking to all Onion, Inc creatives to help brainstorm new video ideas. If you’re looking to participate in the program and haven’t been briefed, please contact Rick Hamann.

Also, please remember to commit to the additional security precautions as mentioned in Steve’s note.

Hi all,

Hope everyone had a nice weekend.

We’re going to push the happy hour from this Thursday the 29th, until next Thursday 5th. Sorry for the inconvenience. So you’ll have to wait one more week to talk through company updates and goals.

I also wanted to let everyone know that we’ve secured more office space on the 5th floor and we’re in separate discussions with tenants on six to swap our new 5th floor space for theirs. We should have an answer on that trade shortly. If we’re unable to swap spaces, we’ll build out on the 5th floor and move a couple of groups down there. We’ll also add additional conference to address our constant shortage. More on this to follow in next week’s note…

Hi all,

Hope everyone had a great SuperBowl weekend. Reminder, our Q1 Happy Hour will be this Thursday(2/5) at 4pm in the kitchen. Brief run through of company updates with food and beer provided. Looking forward to seeing you all there.

Also, with your manager’s approval, feel free to work from home tomorrow.

Department Updates:

Labs
Labs is working on finishing touches of a “Behind the Music” style parody for Denny’s, and has the first shoot as AOR for Four Loko. A three day production extravaganza filming across Chicago (including the office).

AVC
The A.V. Club will launch a new video series featuring celebrity guests called Pick A Choice on Tuesday. Guests choose picks and sometimes pick choices. The first episode features Wyatt Cenac, and we've also shot episodes with Greg Proops and Chris Gethard.

We're also debuting a tour announcement video exclusive that we shot with Weird Al Yankovic this week. The video crew turned it around super quick, even with extensive notes from Weird himself.

Onion Edit
All next week, Onion legend Todd Hanson will be visiting the office and working with the writing staff. Feel free to say hi, if greeting other people is your kind of thing.

Production
This Friday (2/6) marks Marty Cramer's last day at The Onion. We're going to be sending him off at Thursday's happy hour, so mark your calendars and join us in celebrating the nicest, most hardworking guy we know.

Thanks,

Mike

We are incredibly proud and deeply depressed to announce that this week will be Jen Spyra's last as a senior writer for The Onion. She will moving to New York to take a job writing for the Late Show with Stephen Colbert. Be sure to congratulate her on her great new gig. She and her weird green smoothies will be missed. We'll plan to gather on Friday afternoon with food and drink to send her off with all of our well wishes.

Hi all,

As I'm sure you've all noticed, The Onion redesign launched last Friday, May 1st. The new site is clean, responsive, intuitive - a real testimony to the hard work put forth by an incredibly talented group of people.

I'd like to call attention to the following people who were instrumental in getting this out the door: Chris Sprehe, Chris Sinchok, Kelly Pratt, Shawn Cook, Vince Forgione, Andrew Kos, Jamie Levinson, Cameron Lowe, Mike Parent, Kristi-Lynn Jacovino, and Jenny Crowley.

This group has spent many months and countless hours in pursuit of a better way. Thank you all for your patience, commitment, and expertise. We are extremely proud of what you have done and how you have done it.

In continued good news, we are proud to announce the promotion of Cole Bolton to Editor in Chief of The Onion.

Cole has been a creative force for The Onion for many years, and his talent and leadership have led him up the ranks in record time. In the past year and a half as Editor, Cole has continued to elevate the expectations of The Onion writer's room, delivering first-class content and developing an immensely talented staff underneath him. We look forward to his continued contributions as Editor in Chief. Congratulations, Cole. Well deserved.

Hi all,

On Thursday, May 28th, the senior management team will host "Onion 101" to educate our newest employees on our company vision, brands and our business model. Each manager will provide an overview of their department operations and initiatives to help our new hires better understand how each group works together to advance the company overall. These events will be regularly held either monthly or quarterly, depending on the influx of new hires, moving forward.

All of our recent hires will be in attendance on the 28th, but we'd like to extend the invitation for anyone who wants to check it out. We'll host a happy hour following the event with food, drinks, and a few short company updates from myself & a few of our managers. Details to follow shortly but be sure to mark your calendars.

We’re nine months into the year, and while things might not be perfect, they’re looking pretty good. We’ve been able to grow our audience and revenue over the prior year, and we’ve had a few big PR wins—including the Slate article that called ClickHole the best site on the internet.

But even though we’ve done well, we have not been able to keep pace with our ambitious goals for Onion Inc. As the media landscape continues to evolve, we need to continue to be smart and agile. To that end, we’re going back to basics, which for us means concentrating on creating the best publications on the planet and connecting them correctly with advertisers. All corners of the company need to work together to achieve those goals.

Over the past year, we’ve had success with Onion Labs, and I believe we will continue to find success selling Labs’ creative services directly to clients and to agencies and platforms looking for creative services. However, Onion Labs has been losing traction with media agencies, which are looking for services that are more indicative of what they’re seeing from other publishers and that are more aligned with our editorial sensibilities.

The shift in demand for Labs services has led to a staff change. We’re amicably parting ways with Chris Roe, Matt Cragnolin, and Ali Dolan. We appreciate their contributions over the past year and a half, and we wish them the best of luck in the future.

In brighter news, we’re also making some changes to our organizational structure to optimize us for growth.

Kurt Mueller has been promoted to Chief Operating Officer. In his new role, Kurt will oversee Finance, Tech/Product, Marketing, and Sales And Account Management.  He will handle how we monetize our brands, among other things, and work with the Editors-In-Chief of each brand to ensure that we’re delivering the best experience for our audience and advertisers.

Katie Pontius has been promoted to Chief Resource Officer. In her new role, Katie will oversee overall company resource needs, including Talent and Video Production. George Zwierzynski will report to her.

Rick Hamann has been promoted to Chief Creative Officer. He will oversee our publishing brands, Onion Studios, Onion Labs, and all creative endeavors.

Josh Modell has been promoted to SVP/Editorial Director. Josh will work with our Editors-In-Chief on all creative initiatives, including our offerings for advertisers. This is a new role that will ensure our creativity is the foundation to building our business.

John Teti has been promoted to Editor-In-Chief of The A.V. Club. John will work closely with Josh to ensure that the transition is as smooth as possible, and Josh will continue to play a vital role in The A.V. Club’s plans.

Chris Sprehe has been promoted to SVP of Product And Tech. He will report to Kurt Mueller.

Jermaine Affonso has been promoted to Editor-In-Chief of ClickHole.

Please congratulate these individuals on their promotions.

I believe these changes will help us become a better company. They’ll also allow us build on our momentum, including the Onion Studios initiative. We have a bunch of ideas that we’re very excited about, courtesy of our talented staff. Kyle Ryan and David Burns have been pitching these ideas to a variety of networks, and we’ve gained significant traction on five of them. You’ll hear a lot more about this in the coming weeks—I just wanted to note that this process is already off to a very strong start.

I also wanted to reiterate where we find ourselves in the investor process. We haven’t found the right partner yet, though there continues to be a lot of interest. We’re optimistic that we’ll be able to find one that can help invest in our long-term success.

Thanks for all of your continued hard work!

Hi everyone,

I’m pleased to announce that this Monday we’re launching our newest site, StarWipe.

Conceived by Sean O’Neal, StarWipe is a website that tackles celebrity reporting, giving voice to how smart people approach dumb pop culture. It’s a big idea that has been in development for over a year.

Sean O’Neal, as Editor-In-Chief, will lead a talented staff and deliver on our desires to reach new audiences and extend the overall footprint of Onion, Inc. The site will sit nicely in between the sensibility of Onion & ClickHole and The A.V. Club.

StarWipe is an important part of our growth strategy. We want to launch new brands that fit into Onion Inc.’s overall portfolio through smart comedy and culture. But we also want to grow an audience outside of our existing brands. This approach expands us creatively and gives more options for advertisers.

To that end, if anyone has other creative ideas that they would like to come to life, please share. We always love betting on brilliant people and their ideas they are passionate about...ClickHole is a prime example of this strategy paying off.

Sean has been integral to the AV Club’s success over the last eight years and I couldn’t be more confident with him at the helm. We know Sean and his talented team, will make StarWipe a huge success. I’m excited about the launch!

Special thanks to everyone who is involved to make StarWipe a success. Included in these thank yous are the Product/Tech team and the Video teams for all their support.

Here’s to a successful launch and a new chapter for Onion, Inc.

Mike

Hi all,

Hope you’ve been enjoying the semi-weekly notes. It’s always good to hear first-hand about all the exciting endeavors we’re undertaking. Plus, you get the added benefit of GIFs, auto-generated copy, and CEO satire.

With all that said, I wanted to take a moment and communicate a few things that have come up in some recent discussions with various staffers.

Everyone in the company is aligned. We all love our brands. We all are in awe of the abilities of our creative talent. We all believe in the same tenets of success. We all pursue the same vision. And that includes…

1. At the center of Onion, Inc, is a commitment to creating the best and most influential content in the world. What unites our brands is not only our commitment to excellence, but our shared sensibility of commenting on the world.

2.  While everything begins with our creative talent and their pursuit of perfection, we have to figure out ways to finance our content. We have 27 years of experience selling access to our coveted audience to advertisers. Advertising remains a key focus for our business, especially as the type of advertising we sell continues to evolve. All the changes in advertising have helped Onion, Inc, since when we are agile, we’re able to deliver on the changing needs in the most effective way. Agility and innovation are what makes our business work.

3. Success breeds success. We have always, and will always, reinvest the yields our success into our people and new creative endeavors. Reinvestment can mean new initiatives (Onion Studios) and new sites (ClickHole and Starwipe) but most importantly it means reinvesting in our flagship properties and all of our departments. While we have ambitions to do more, we never forget how crucial it is to maintain (and grow) our brands. Our search for the right investor, which I believe we’ve found, is key to having even more resources available to pursue our plans.

We’ve built a great company by working together across departments to ensure that the best ideas are pursued.

Last week, at our at our sales summit, all our departments talked about how we can be better at financing all of our creative ideas. Each of our creative teams laid out a roadmap for 2016, which outlined the most exciting and ambitious plans for the year ahead that could all be financed through advertising. For everyone’s benefit, I’ve attached the various presentations.

As you’ll see, we have big ideas. Now we need our sales and support teams to work together to get these sold.  I’m confident we will, and that we'll make 2016 another great year for Onion, Inc.

In the meantime, I’ll keep you apprised of any new developments.

Mike

Hey everybody,

As most of you know, Onion Inc. has been searching for the past year for a partner to help our company continue to thrive and grow. It’s been a long, sometimes complicated process, as these things tend to be. Lots of entities showed lots of interest, which was encouraging. There’s a lot of love in the world for our publications.

I’m happy to announce that we’ve just finished a deal with what might at first seem like an unusual partner: Univision. The communications company has acquired a good chunk of Onion Inc. as of today, and may acquire the remainder down the line.
cleardot.gif

Though you may associate the name with Spanish-language television, Univision has expanded its scope further in recent years, most notably (for our purposes, anyway) with the launch of Fusion—both the TV network and website. The network has taken chances on such Onion and A.V. Club-friendly shows as The Chris Gethard Show and Paul F. Tompkins’ puppet show, No, You Shut Up! For the web, Fusion assembled an impressive editorial team led by Alexis Madrigal, the former Atlantic and Wired writer. Considering this editorial-first mindset, Univision seemed like an ideal partner. They have also invested in sites like The Root and the TV network El Rey.

So what does this mean for us as a company? Good things. Univision is excited to help Onion Inc. grow, and to provide the resources to both support our long-standing mission and fund new initiatives. They’ll help us keep the foundation strong and to build great new things on top of it. As an independent media company, we’ve always been forced to run a tight financial ship, which has made us smart and lean, but not always ready to invest in the great new ideas that we come up with. I’m excited to see what we can do with Univision behind us.

And what does it mean for you? Good things, too. We’ve got an incredible team across the board right now, and there are no plans to change that. If anything, I would expect to see more talented hires and bigger opportunities for everyone in the coming year.

I’m sure you’ll have questions—feel free to ask me or your manager anything you’d like to know.

We will also host a town-hall meeting today at 11:00 a.m. to discuss further.

Thanks,
Mike
